PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 13 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 11 APRIL 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS: Kindly note that the following post was advertised
in Public Service Vacancy Circular 12 dated 04 April 2025, The qualification for the Office
Manager with Ref No: HRMC 11/25/4, has been amended as follows: - (Please note that
we have added Financial Accounting): An undergraduate qualification in Administration,
Business Management, Office Management and Technology or Financial Accounting at
NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. The closing date will remain the same 08 May
2025.
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that the post of
Assistant Director: Software Developer (for the IPID National Office) with Ref No:
Q9/2025/26 advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 12 dated 04 April 2025 with
a closing date of 22 April 2025, the closing date has been extended to 30 April 2025.
Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES A 03 - 07
DEFENCE B 08 - 12
EMPLOYEMENT AND LABOUR C 13 - 34
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT D 35 - 36
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT E 37 - 40
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE F 41 - 45
STATISTICS SOUTH AFRICA G 46 - 48
TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION H 49 - 52
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE I 53- 71
LIMPOPO J 72 - 81
MPUMALANGA K 82 - 90
NORTHERN CAPE L 91 - 92
WESTERN CAPE M 93 - 165
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intent to promote equity through the filling of
these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to
email: recruit@dcdt.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 02 May 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp and should be accompanied by
a recently updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The successful
candidates must disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and
sign an employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of
duty. A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. Note: Applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. Only e-mailed applications will be
considered. Short listed applicants will be required to submit certified copies of
all qualifications obtained and will be subjected to verification by the South
African Qualifications Authority. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered further. Due to
the large volumes of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks, including social media checks, and the successful
candidate will have to undergo a full security vetting. No appointment shall be
finalised without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). All applicants must declare any conflict or perceived conflict
of interest and must disclose membership of Boards and directorships
associated with. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
note that CVs submitted will be destroyed after the three (3) months period.
The Department complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use the personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department will retain your
personal information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Department will safeguard the security and confidentiality of
all information you shared during the recruitment process. The Department
reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s).
Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the
achievement of employment equity within the Department, will receive
preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DDGA
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to lead and oversee the provision of corporate
support services to ensure the effective and efficient functioning of the
department and achieve operational excellence.
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
3
Employees’ Pension Fund, a medical aid fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification and a postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8)
as recognized by the South African Qualifications Authority in Public
Administration/Social Services/MBA/Strategic Management/Operations
Management/Commerce or relevant field. 8 Years of experience at a senior
managerial level and the successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on www.thensg.gov.za (submitted
prior to appointment). In depth knowledge of the Public Service Act, 1994 as
amended, the Public Service Regulations, 2016, as amended, the Public
Finance Management Act, 1999 as amended and other financial regulations,
Government Policies and Departmental policies and procedures. Skills and
Competencies: At an advanced level in Strategic Thinking and Capability,
Leadership, Operations Management, Government Administrative Processes,
Corporate Governance, Stakeholder Management, ICT and Digital
Transformation, Industry Perspective, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management. Must be able to communicate at senior management
level (both written and verbal). Ability to meet tight deadlines while delivering
excellent results.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Ensure the review and design of robust policies,
processes, procedures and governance structure to enable the delivery of
corporate support functions and related strategic and operational initiatives and
programmes, lead and monitor the provisioning of human capital management
and development services to enable the Department to build a capable
workforce, positive culture and productive work environment, oversee the
provisioning of legal and legislative drafting services, including related legal
compliance and regulatory oversight, lead the development and
implementation of communication and marketing strategies, plans and
programmes that enhance employee engagement and the image and brand of
the Department, oversee the provisioning of digital solutions, technology and
services, lead and oversee the provisioning of financial management services
to ensure Department’s financial health and performance, which support the
achievement of strategic goals and objectives, lead and oversee the
provisioning of corporate planning, monitoring and reporting services to foster
a culture of performance and accountability, lead, facilitate and monitor the
provision of security and facilities management services. Strategic functional
leadership, manage human and financial resources, drive change and
operational excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427
8000, Ms Rene Naidoo Tel No: (012)427 8141
POST 13/02 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: MEDIA AND CONTENT REF NO: DDGMC
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to lead and create an enabling legislative and
operational environment to drive the delivery of media and content functions
and programmes and provide entity oversight services to ensure performance,
financial viability and sustainability.
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees’ Pension Fund, a medical aid fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification and a postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8)
as recognized by the South African Qualifications Authority in Engineering/
Technology/ Media Management/ International Relations/Commerce or
relevant field. 8 Years of experience at a senior managerial level and the
successful completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on www.thensg.gov.za (submitted prior to appointment). An
understanding of South Africa’s digital broadcasting and audio-visual
landscape and policy landscape; ICT, telecommunications and broadcasting
industries; global ICT and digital transformation trends. Skills and
Competencies: At an advanced level in Strategic Thinking, Leadership, Digital
4
Strategy, Content Creation, Media Platforms, Communication, Regulatory
Compliance, Government and ICT Public Policy, Government Administrative
Processes, Corporate Governance, Stakeholder Management, ICT and Digital
Transformation, Technology Savvy, Industry Perspective, People Management
and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Change
Management, Change Management, Financial Management. Excellent
communication skills (both written and verbal). Ability to meet tight deadlines
while delivering excellent results.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Lead and monitor the development and
implementation of a robust policy framework, innovative strategic reforms and
Lead and monitor the development and implementation of a robust policy
framework, innovative strategic reforms and plans that govern and enable the
delivery of transformative audio visual and digital media industry support
services; public service media and monitor the performance of the entity to
ensure financial viability and sustainability, content classification and online
safety policies and strategies to support and ensure a responsible, safe and
secure digital environment and content consumption. Oversee review,
development and implementation of regulatory framework to monitor policy
implementation compliance and impact, lead the development and
implementation of robust entity oversight mechanisms to monitor their
performance, financial viability and sustainability and business impact, provide
technical media and content expertise to shape department’s policy and
participate in industry, regional and international ICT and related fields forums
and ensure that South Africa remains a recognised policy contributor, ensure
the review and design of robust business and governance structure to enable
the delivery of media and content function, lead the delivery of the functional
area strategic initiatives and programmes to drive the achievement of the
strategic objectives, enhance departments presence in the industry and
relevant platforms and structures. Strategic functional leadership, manage
human and financial resources, drive change and operational excellence and
manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427
8000, Ms Rene Naidoo Tel No: (012)427 8141
POST 13/03 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TECHNOLOGIES REF NO: DDGIT
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to lead and create an enabling legislative and
operational environment to drive the delivery of digital infrastructure and
technology programmes and provide entity oversight services to ensure
performance, financial viability and sustainability.
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees’ Pension Fund, a medical aid fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification and a postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8)
as recognized by the South African Qualifications Authority in in Engineering/
Technology/ Economics /Commerce or relevant field. An MBA/MBL or related
Post Graduate Business Management qualification will be an added
advantage. 8 Years of experience at a senior managerial level and the
successful completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on www.thensg.gov.za (submitted prior to appointment). An
understanding of South Africa’s ICT, digital infrastructure, telecommunications
and broadcasting industries; global ICT and digital transformation trends.
Experience in the Management of big infrastructure programmes including
development of business plans and proposals for investment. Skills and
Competencies: At an advanced level in Strategic Thinking, Leadership, Digital
Strategy, Government and ICT Public Policy, Government Administrative
Processes, Corporate Governance, Stakeholder Management, ICT and Digital
Transformation, Technology Savvy, Industry Perspective, People Management
and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Change
Management, Financial Management. Excellent communication skills (both
written and verbal). Ability to meet tight deadlines while delivering excellent
5
results. Experience in managing complex operations, grant funding scheme
and private-public partnership programmes.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Lead and monitor the development and
implementation of a robust policy framework, innovative strategic reforms and
plans that govern and enable the delivery of rapid deployment operations
programmes; digital infrastructure programmes; radio communication
programmes; cybersecurity and internet governance services and broadband
services and initiatives. Oversee review, development and implementation of
regulatory framework to monitor policy implementation compliance and impact,
lead the development and implementation of robust entity oversight
mechanisms to monitor their performance, financial viability and sustainability
and business impact, provide technical ICT and digital transformation expertise
to shape department’s policy and participate in industry, regional and
international ICT and related fields forums and ensure that South Africa
remains a recognised policy contributor. Lead the delivery of the functional area
strategic initiatives and programmes to drive the achievement of the strategic
objectives, including investment partnership programmes, develop funding
strategies and business cases for funding. Strategic functional leadership,
manage human and financial resources, drive change and operational
excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427
8000, Ms Rene Naidoo Tel No: (012)427 8141
POST 13/04 : DIRECTOR: IT BUSINESS SOLUTIONS REF NO: DIRITIBS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and drive the implementation of IT
Solution Delivery Services.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees’ Pension Fund, a medical aid fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Information Technology / Systems
Engineering / Computer Science or relevant field. 5 Years of experience at
middle/senior managerial level and the successful completion of the Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
www.thensg.gov.za (submitted prior to appointment). Relevant accreditation
such as CRISC/CISA/ITIL/CITM/ CISSP/CGEIT. Skills and Competencies: At
an advanced level in IT Solution Development and Integration, Software
Design & Release Management, Software Engineering, User Interface Design,
Digital Automation, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and
Project Management, IT Change Management, Financial Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the design, review and
implementation of IT governance framework, policies, standards, principles
and procedures. Align departmental IT alignment strategy with overall business
goals and IT objectives. Analyse business requirements and constraints on IT
solutions, solutions deployment risks and impact, and validate IT services/
solutions requirements. Design and manage solution deployment strategies,
standards, policies and business solutions based innovative and cloud-based
technologies, IT software and ensure that all systems and applications comply
with established architecture standards, security protocols and technical
design authority. Conduct demand planning, manage solution deployment
processes and continually explore and assess options for value-add. Conduct
periodic reviews and updates of coding procedures and reviews. Conduct
quality assurance, manage the integration of solution designs and components
and assess and perform IT service/solution and remediation. Monitor to ensure
that business solutions are designed, implemented, and integrated to support
business requirements. Strategic Functional Leadership, Manage human
resources, Manage financial resources, driving change and operational
excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427
8000, Ms Rene Naidoo Tel No: (012)427 8141
6
POST 13/05 : DIRECTOR: IT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE OPERATIONS REF NO:
DIRITISO
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and drive the implementation of IT
Service Delivery Operations.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Information Technology / Systems
Engineering / Computer Science or relevant field. 5 Years of experience at
middle/senior managerial level and the successful completion of the Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
www.thensg.gov.za (submitted prior to appointment). Relevant accreditation
such as CISA/ITIL/CITM/ CISSP/COBIT. Skills and Competencies: At an
advanced level in IT Service Management, IT Operations Management, IT
Service Desk Management, IT Service Catalogue Management, IT Network
Management, IT Infrastructure, Systems Administration, Database
Administration, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and
Project Management, IT Change Management, Financial Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the design and review of IT
governance framework, policies, standards, principles and procedures.
Develop and implement a comprehensive infrastructure strategy aligned with
business objectives and ensure the infrastructure strategy supports
organizational goals and technology requirements. Define, negotiate, and
manage service levels to meet expectations in driving IT infrastructure
performance, capacity, security, and recovery. Manage, configure, maintain
and upgrade networks, and monitor network performance (capacity, security,
availability, utilization, throughput, latency) and test for weaknesses. Manage
the installation and integrate new server hardware and applications and
monitor third-party applications. Build database systems and perform tests to
ensure data security, privacy and integrity. Drive database systems of high
availability and quality and ensure secure and efficient utilization of cloud
services. Manage database performance, implement changes as required and
enforce database policies, procedures and standards. Manage interface
between employees and IT to ensure proper event, incidents, problems and
requests management. Strategic Functional Leadership, Manage human
resources, Manage financial resources, driving change and operational
excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427
8000, Ms Rene Naidoo Tel No: (012)427 8141
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 02 May 2025, (Applications received after the closing date and faxed copies
will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/06 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: DPSP/11/13/25 (X2 POSTS)
Defence Policy
Strategy and Planning Division
Chief Directorate: Strategic Management
Directorate: Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12)
CENTRE : Defence Headquarters, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a relevant 3-year tertiary (NQF Level
7) academic qualification, specialisation in management science, strategic
studies or monitoring and evaluation. Minimum of three (3) to five (5) years
experience in Strategic Management at Middle Management level (of which 3
years must be at an Assistant Director/level 9/10 or equivalent), with specific
experience relevant to quarterly and annual performance reporting, analyses
and monitoring and evaluation of financial and non-financial performance
information on Headquarter/Corporate level (Service/Divisional or equivalent).
Special Requirement (skills needed) The successful candidate must have in-
depth understanding of Government’s Revised Framework for Strategic Plans
and Annual Performance Plans, and the DOD Strategic Management Process
and Framework that provides the norms and standards within which the
Departmental results-based planning, budgeting, reporting, risk management,
8
and audit process are executed in the realisation of the Defence mandate.
Advanced knowledge in respect to the development/formulation,
implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures; analytical skills,
excellent strategic management and negotiation skills with good interpersonal
relations and a superior level of verbal and written communication capabilities.
Ability to identify strategic gaps and propose viable solutions. Exceptional time
management skills with sensitivity to deadlines. Good understanding of civil-
military relations along with a solid understanding of current defence policy and
policy issues. Excellent demonstrable end-user computer skills in all MS Office
packages in accordance with department specific service writing conventions
accompanied with highly developed presentation skills and presentation
software proficiency. The incumbent must be assertive and self-driven,
innovative and creative, solution orientated and able to work under stressful
situations, very strict timescales and have the ability to maintain high levels of
confidentiality and must be able to successfully comply with the security
clearance processes of the Department of Defence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties: Analyse
policy development and advice on corporate level performance management:
The departmental policy development and analyse in the provision of advice
on corporate level performance management to decision-making bodies. This
entails, amongst others, the detailed analysis of financial and non-financial
programme and sub programme performance trends. Develop corporate
guidelines and instructions on performance management iro monitoring and
evaluation: The development of corporate guidelines and instructions on
departmental performance management relating to effective and efficient
monitoring and evaluation of performance information, concurrent with the
Regulatory Framework in terms of performance reports. Prepare/compile
corporate performance management reports: Ensure the Department’s
adherence to statutory responsibilities in terms of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury and Department of Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation prescripts through the preparation and compilation
of corporate performance management reports on performance against plan,
which gives direction to the development of analytical reports and
presentations for Parliamentary Oversight committees and Political principals.
Perform DOD external performance assessments: Perform and manage
external departmental performance assessments when required and act as the
nodal point for management information requirements on departmental
performance. Coordinate performance information audit enquiries with internal
and external assurance providers and ensure the implementation of action
plans, the monitoring thereof and regular status reports to higher authority.
Manage support functions of the Directorate: Provide a Directorate support
function through effective business/operational performance planning and
reporting as well as the management of procurement with the Directorate and
ensure sound corporate governance mechanisms for the Directorate.
Contribute to building a reliable, outcomes focussed high performance team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C.E. van den Berg Tel No: (012) 355-5203
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered to Department of Defence, Chief Defence
Policy, Strategy and Planning Division (DPSP), Directorate Performance
Monitoring and Evaluation. ARMSCOR Building, Defence Headquarters Unit,
Corner Delmas and Nossob Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0048 or emailed
to dod.dpme@gmail.com.
POST 13/07 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: DYSFUNCTION AND
CONTRACTS REF NO: DLSD/12/13/25/01
Directorate: Legal Services Division
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum (MR-6)
CENTRE : Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB plus at least 8 years appropriate/recognition applicable legal experience
after obtaining the relevant legal qualification. The salary at appointment will
be determined in accordance with OSD determination. Drafting and/or vetting
of contracts. Post grad qualification in contracts. Special requirements (skills
needed): Knowledge of the Interpretation Act. The ability to conduct legal
research using legal research programs. Knowledge of applicable legislation,
Legal writing and Drafting. Computer literacy, Research, analytical,
presentation, problem solving, negotiation, people management, research,
9
interpersonal, relation, and Communication skills (verbal and written). Strategic
thinking ability.
DUTIES : Provide legal advice/opinions with regard to contracts (level 0 and 1). Research
legal prescripts for inclusion in contacts, e.g. Act of Parliament Regulations,
provincial legislation, judgements of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court
of Appeal, Division of the High Court, specific Courts such as the Labour Court,
Labour Appeal Court, etc; academic material such as legal text book, articles,
etc. Provide drafting support iro contracts. Research new legal developments
in various fields of law to determine whether they have an impact on draft
contracts. Provide negotiation support iro contracts, liaise with external entities,
such as the State Attorney, State law advisors to provide legal opinion
regarding areas of concern or as per request of the client. Provide general legal
support and advice to clients on dysfunctional aspects of various areas of law
that are not provided by the other sub-sections of DLA or other Directorates in
the DLSD. Provide supervisory and management functions to subordinates in
the sub directorates. Manage all internal processes for the effective rendering
of timely legal advice on aspects regarding contracts and dysfunctional issues.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383/Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Arnscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or emailed to
Pieter.Kemp@dod.mil.za
POST 13/08 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING
AND MOU: REF NO: DLSD/12/13/25/02
Directorate: Legal Services Division
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum (MR-6)
CENTRE : Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB plus at least 8 years appropriate/recognition applicable legal experience
after obtaining the relevant legal qualification. The salary at appointment will
be determined in accordance with OSD determination. Admission as an
Attorney or Advocate is preferred. Special requirements (skills needed):
Knowledge of the Legislative Processes and Parliamentary Rules. Knowledge
of the Constitution, Defence Act, Interpretation Act, and other applicable
legislation, and international law. Knowledge and skills of legislative writing and
drafting is required. In addition, general knowledge of law, negotiation skills,
presentation skills, management skills, good communication skills (written and
verbal), computer literacy, research skills and ability to conduct legal research
using legal research programs, is required. The ability to think analytically and
strategically. The ability to solve problems, make presentations on legislative
matters and negotiate. The ability to manage subordinates and conduct good
interpersonal relations. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Provide sound legal advice/opinions on Legislation and International
Instruments applicable to the DoD, such as Memoranda of Understanding
(MoU). Draft and review legislation and subordinate legislation of the DoD.
Maintain and monitor the DoD Legislative Programme. Keep record of all
matters relating to the DoD Legislative programme. Obtain and collate inputs
from stakeholders regarding the DoD Legislative Programme. Efficiently carry
out legislative functions and manage processes in respect of legislation. Draft
all legislative documents, such as Cabinet Memo’s and documents required by
Parliament. Provide legal support to other sub-directorates and Director Legal
Advice, as required. Attend consultations, meetings, legislative sittings and
legislative forums in respect of legislative matters. Provide legal advice and
inputs on legislative issues. Manage the Government Gazette publications of
the DoD. Manage and direct the Sub-Directorate: Legislative Drafting and
MoU.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383/Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Arnscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or emailed to
Pieter.Kemp@dod.mil.za
10
POST 13/09 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: POLICY & GENERAL LEGAL
SUPPORT REF NO: DLSD/12/13/25/03
Directorate: Legal Services Division
SALARY : R464 634 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR-5)
CENTRE : Army Support Base, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : LLB plus at least 14 years appropriate/recognition applicable legal experience
after obtaining the relevant legal qualification. The salary at appointment will
be determined in accordance with OSD determination. Admission as an
Attorney or Advocate is preferred. Special requirements (skills needed
Knowledge of the Constitution, Defence Act, Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure,
Law of Evidence and Administrative Law is required. Skills on Interpretation of
Statutes and knowledge of litigation and litigation processes is required. In
addition, general knowledge of law, negotiation skills, presentation skills,
management skills, good communication skills (written and verbal), computer
literacy, research skills and ability to conduct legal research using legal
research programs.
DUTIES : Facilitate and manage litigation. This includes civil claims instituted against, or
by the DoD. This inter alia includes the handling of letters of demand,
summonses and notices of motion. Liaise with the State Attorney on the
proposed handling and management of DoD litigation matters, including
drafting of instructions to the State Attorney. Liaise with internal DoD
stakeholders on litigation matters. Attend consultations with the State Attorney
and/or Counsel. Draft submissions in the management of litigation, this
includes drafting submissions to the Head of Department. Ensure sound
litigation administration including the compiling of monthly litigation
reports/statistics. Facilitate requests for legal representation by the State from
DoD officials. Provide legal advice and support regarding the formulation of
Departmental policies, to ensure the alignment of DoD policies with national
legislation and/or with other prescripts. Facilitate the resolution of legal
disputes regarding the interpretation or implementation of DoD policies.
Provide sound legal advice/opinion on policy issues.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383/Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Arnscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or emailed to
Pieter.Kemp@dod.mil.za
POST 13/10 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE SUPPORT REF
NO: DLSD/12/13/25/04
Directorate: Legal Services Division
SALARY : R464 634 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR-5)
CENTRE : Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB (NQF Level 6) plus at least 14 years appropriate/recognition applicable
legal experience after obtaining the relevant legal qualification. The salary at
appointment will be determined in accordance with OSD determination. Special
requirements (skills needed): Extensive labour law background.
Labour/Industrial relations background. MLP or other relevant experience for
at least 2 years. Experience of handling of labour disputes. Background if
industrial relations. Public service and military. Knowledge of Legal writing and
drafting. The ability to conduct legal research using legal research programs.
Computer literacy-, Research, analytical, presentation, problem solving,
negotiation, people management, research, interpersonal relation, and
Communication skills (verbal and written). Strategic thinking ability.
DUTIES : Provide legal support with regard to formulation of policies, DODIs, DODDs
and JDPs. Ensure alignment of DoD policies with national legislation and other
prescripts. Facilitate resolution of legal disputes with regard to the
interpretation or implementation of contracts. Process of providing specialist
HR Legal Advice. To represent and or facilitate representation of the
Department in PSCBC, GPSSBC, CCMA, MBC and MBA matters. To instruct,
liaise and assist the Office of the State Attorney in labour litigation where the
DOD is involved. To develop and maintain an effective and efficient system of
liaising with relevant internal and external role players to ensure effective HR
Legal advice. Draft, review and provide written legal advice on DOD related
MOUs and other international legal documents, which entails conducting
11
written legal opinions on the legality of MOU, provide negotiation support to
DOD when required.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383/Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Arnscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or emailed to
Pieter.Kemp@dod.mil.za
POST 13/11 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DLSD/12/13/25/05
Directorate: Legal Services Division
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent and Secretarial Diploma with a minimum
of three to five (3-5) years relevant experience in rendering a support service
to senior management. Special requirements (skills needed): Language skills
and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds. Proficiency in Microsoft, Office suits, Excel.
Professional attitude and appearance. Solid written and verbal communication
skills. Excellent organisational skills. Good etiquette, sound organisational
skills, high level of reliability, ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to perform the following core
functions: Provide secretarial/receptionist support service and clerical support
to the Director eg. Receives telephone calls, performs advanced typing work,
records the engagements of the Director, coordinates with and advises the
Director regarding engagements. Renders administrative support services eg.
Co-ordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the
Director with administrative of the manager’s budget. Studies the relevant
Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and
ensure that the application thereof is understood properly. Continuously
remains up to date wrt the policies and procedures applicable to the work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the Director. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Director.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383/Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Arnscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or emailed to
Pieter.Kemp@dod.mil.za
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not eccept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. If you have
not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/12 : SENIOR MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES (NON-CLINICAL) REF NO:
HR4/4/7/30
Re-advertisement
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 – R1 576 977 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 623 609 – R1 853 529 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 826 139 - R2 212 680 per annum, (OSD)
13
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB/ MBBCh/ MD/ MBBS Degree or equivalent qualifications. DoH/ DOHM/
DOccMed or equivalent. Valid driver’s license. A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Officer after registration with the (Health
Professions Council of South Africa) HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund Services, Compensation Fund Value Chain
and business processes, Public Service, DoeL and Fund regulations, policies
and procedures, Fund Value, PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, Promotion
of Access to Information Act, PAJA. Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership,
People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus, Required Technical proficiency, Business Writing Skills, Analytical
thinking, Decision making, Communication (verbal and written), Customer
Focus and Responsiveness, managing inter-personal conflict and Problem
solving, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Manage the compensation process with necessary medical expertise. Provide
guidance to decentralised medical services in provinces. Develop policies and
procedures on medical services. Management of resources in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni,
1035 or hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MP-COID@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/13 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BENEFICIARY SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/7/27
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (National Diploma NQF6)/ (Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF 7) in Operations Management/Operational
Research/Public Management/ Business Administration/ Public Relations
Administration/ Public Administration /Administration Management/ Finance.
Valid driver’s license. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) must be
functional experience in Unemployment Insurance Operations environment
and two (2) years must be management experience. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulation (PSR), Unemployment Insurance Fund and Contribution
Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Batho Pele Principles, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA),
Employment Equity Act (EEA), Public Service Regulations (PSR). Skills:
Leadership, Management, Report writing (Advance), Computer Literacy, Team
Building, Project management, Analytical, Communication, Innovative/
Creative.
DUTIES : Manage Employer Services functions in the province. Manage assessment,
services and local appeals and complaints, Monitor the provision of Generals
Support and Registry Services. Manage the provision of comprehensive
financial administration in the province. Manage resources in the Sub-
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MP-BS@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/14 : SPECIALIST: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE REF NO:
HR4/25/04/02HO
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Environmental Health/ Chemical Engineering/ Occupational Health/
Hygiene or BSc with Occupational Hygiene Modules. A Valid driver’s license.
Registration as an Occupational Hygiene Assistant or Occupational Hygiene
Technologist with the recognised Professional Body (the Southern African
Institute for Occupational hygiene) is compulsory. Five (5) years’ experience of
which two (2) years at the Middle Management level and three (3) functional
experience in Occupational Health and Hygiene Services. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHSAS, COIDA UIA UI
Contribution Act. Skills Development Act Employment Equity Act ISO 14001.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
14
Problem solving, Interviewing, listening and observation, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into development of Health and Hygiene Policies and ensure
the implementation OHS strategy for the Department of Employment and
Labour in terms of OHS Act, Regulations and Standards. Conduct complex
inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as per OHS programme. Conduct
technical research on latest trends of Occupational Health and Safety in terms
of Health and Hygiene. Provide support for enforcement action, including
preparation of reports for legal proceedings. Manage the resources and
monitor performance of staff within the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Huna Tel No: (012) 309 4407
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ12@labour.gov.za
POST 13/15 : SPECIALIST: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/25/04/03HO
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Electrical Engineering. A Valid driver’s license. Five (5) years’
experience of which two (2) years at the Middle Management level and three
(3) functional experience in Electrical Services. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and
Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHSAS, COIDA, UIA, UI Contribution
Act, Employment Equity Act, ISO 14001 and 18001. Skills: Facilitation and
Presentation, Planning and organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal
relations, Problem solving, Interviewing, listening and observation, Innovative,
Analytical, Research, Project management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development and implementation of Electrical
Engineering policies and strategy for the Department of Employment and
Labour in terms of OHS Act and Regulation. Conduct complex inspections for
Electrical Engineering regularly as per OHS programme. Conduct technical
research on latest trends of Occupational Health and Safety in terms of
Electrical Engineering Sector. Provide support for enforcement action,
including preparation of reports for legal proceedings. Manage the resources
and monitor performance of staff within the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Malatse Tel No: (012) 309 4391/2
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ14@labour.gov.za
POST 13/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT REF NO: HR4/4/3/2DDI/UIF
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA in
Investment Management/Accounting/ Finance Five (5) years working
experience in investment/ Finance Management of which two (2) years must
be functional experience in investment and three (3) years at Assistant
Director/ Junior Management level. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act
(UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Public Investment
Cooperation Act (PICA). Investment markets and portfolio management.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP). International Financial
Reporting Standards. Generally Recognized Accounting Practices (GRAP).
Skills: Leadership. Management. Computer Literacy. Communication. Time
Management. Planning & Organization. Analytical. Research. Problem Solving
& Decision Making. Portfolio Management. Financial Management. Policy
formulation skills.
DUTIES : Monitor investment management services. Manage investment accounting and
disclosure services. Monitor investment risk management services. Manage
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ASC Fourie Tel No: (012) 337 1520/1599
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF9@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF.
15
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian Females, White
Males, White Females and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/17 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: HR4/4/3/2DDSPME/UIF (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6/7 and recognized by SAQA in
internal Audit/ Forensic Audit/ Economics/ Accounting/ Accounting Science/
Commerce/ Development Studies/ Social Sciences /B Tech in Human
Resource Management/ Actuarial Science/ Public Administration. Five (5)
years’ experience of which two (2) years must be functional and three (3) years
at Assistant Director level in Strategic Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
environment. Knowledge: Policy Framework for the Government-Wide
Monitoring and Evaluation System. Monitoring and Evaluation platform /
Principles. Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. Research Methodology Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations (UIAR).
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Framework for Managing
Program Performance Information. Revised Framework and guidelines for
developing Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plans.
Treasury Regulations. Public Audit Act. Skills: Analytical. Financial
Management. Report Writing. Project Management. Risk Management.
Diversity Management Computer Literacy. Communication. Monitoring and
Evaluation Platform. Research Methodology. Problem Solving and Decision
Making.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain appropriate governance to support the Fund’s strategy
development process. Manage the implementation of monitoring and
evaluation framework. Evaluate and analyse service delivery. Manage
Resources Human, Finance, Equipment / Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Molema Tel No: (012) 337 1673
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF.
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, Indian Males, White
Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/18 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/2
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Strategic Management/ Business
Administration/ Business Management/ Public Management. 5 years’
functional experience in strategic planning environment on Assistant Director
level or entry management level. Knowledge: Compensation Fund, policies
and procedures Relevant stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Technical knowledge. Budgeting and Financial Management. Risk
Management and Fund Governance. Strategy planning models processes and
techniques. COIDA. POPIA. Public Service Regulations Act. Public Service
Regulations. Legislative Requirement: PFMA. National Treasury Regulations.
Skills: Communication skills- Both Written and Verbal. Required IT Skills.
Decision making. Planning and organising. Service delivery innovation. People
and Performance Management. Gathering of performance data.
DUTIES : Manage the facilitation and development of the Compensation Fund strategies
and Operational plan. Manage the implementation of the Compensation Fund
strategies and Operational plans. Advising Province on planning related
issues. Manage the evaluation process related to programmes/ Projects of the
Compensation Fund. Manage all the resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Ledwaba at 072 591 9784
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
16
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 13/19 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FRAUD INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/3
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Forensic Investigations/
Commerce/ Law/Criminal Justice. Post Graduate Degree relevant for the
above will be an advantage. 5 years’ functional experience in investigation on
crime or in anti-corruption environment of which 2 years as Assistant Director
level or entry management level. Knowledge: Compensation Fund regulations,
policies and procedures. Fund Governance and Risk Management. Financial
and budgeting management. Customer service principles (Batho Pele
Principles). Criminal Law, Criminal procedures and law of evidence.
Understanding of risk management and audit practices. Investigation methods
and techniques. Understanding of Fraud and corruption processes. COIDA.
Public service regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Legislative
Requirement: National intelligence Act. Protection of Information Act. Criminal
procedure Act. PFMA. National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Communication
skills (verbal and written). Client orientation and customer focus. Programme
and project management Strong analytical skills. Conflict management.
Planning and organising. Problem solving. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of fraud investigation policy and
strategy. Manage the investigations of alleged fraud, corruptions cases and
serious maladministration within the Fund. Provide progress on the
investigations case register implementation. Establish and maintain
relationship with internal and external stakeholders. Manage all resources in
the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 13/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PENSION PAYMENT REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/4
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (on NQF Level 6) in Finance. 2 years’ functional
experience on pension or payroll administration environment. 2 years’
supervisory experience. Knowledge: Compensation Fund, policies and
procedures. Relevant stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles).
Technical knowledge. Legislative Requirements: COIDA. Public Service Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations. Promotion of Access to information Act. Skills: Planning and
Organizing. Communication skills-Both Written and Verbal. Decision making.
Budgeting and Financial Management. Planning and organizing. Managing
inter-personal conflict and resolving problems. Risk Management and Fund
Governance. Analytical Technical Proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Data
and records management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the Pension payment policy. Approve pension payments
and monitor correct banking details database. Release pensions payments for
both local and foreigners’ pensioners. Establish and maintain relations with
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Tshidada Tel No: (012) 319 5881
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
17
POST 13/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: UI OPERATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State-Ref No: HR4/4/8/912 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Gqeberha- Ref No: HR4/4/1/102 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualifications (NQF Level 6) In Operations Management/
Public Management/ Business Administration/ Public Administration/
Administration Management/ Public Relations Management/ Financial
Management. Valid Driver licence. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2)
must be functional experience in Operations environment and two (2) years
must be supervisory experience. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act
(UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA), Treasury
Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Public Service
Regulation (PSR). Public Service Ac (PSA). Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Skills: Communication (Both verbal and written). Computer. Time
Management. Customer Relations. People Management. Report Writing
Supervisory Skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the employer services function in the province. Coordinate the
provision of assessment, validation and adjudication of claims. Facilitate
registry services in the province. Coordinate Local appeals and complains in
the province. Coordinate General Support. Manage resources in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Zama Tel No: (051) 505 6276
Mr M Ngqolowa Tel No: (041) 506 5116
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: Jobs-fs3@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Operations, Free State
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X 6045 Gqeberha
6000, Hand deliver at VSN Centre 116 – 134 Goven Mbeki Avenue
Gqeberha,6000. Email: Jobs-EC6@labour.gov.za
POST 13/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COIDA (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mafikeng Ref No: HR4/4/02/01(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Durban Ref No: HR/4/4/5/36 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year (3) tertiary qualification (NQF6) in Public Management/ Business
Management/ Public administration/ Business Administration/ Administration
Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/ Operations Management/ Production Management/ Auditing/
HRM/ Nursing. Four (4) years functional experience in a claims / medical
Insurance processing environment of which two (2) years is supervisory
experience in processing environment. Knowledge: COIDA Guidelines on
application of COID (for government departments) Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulation. PFMA and Treasury regulations. Del and Compensation
Fund business strategies and goals. Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA). Compensation Fund Value chain. Directorate goals and performance
requirements. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Customer Services (Batho
Pele Principles). Technical Knowledge. Skills: Leadership. Financial
Management. Change Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI).
Planning and Organizing. Problem Solving and Analysis. Decision Making.
People Management and Empowerment (including developing others).
Communications (written and verbal). Risk Management. Computer Literacy.
Business Writing. Client orientation & customer focus. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate the processing of Compensation claims benefits within COID
processing Office. Coordinate the resolutions of all COID and employer
services. Conduct quality assurance on all COID claims and employer
services. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in respect of COID
legislation and services. Manage human, financial and physical resources of
the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Shongwe Tel No: (018) 387 8100
Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500(Durban)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 2040, Mmabatho, 2735 Or
hand delivery to 2nd Floor, Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or
Email: Jobs-NW1@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban or Email to Jobs-
18
KZN7@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 13/23 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: EMPLOYER AUDITOR REF NO: HR 4/4/6/202
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification (NQF6/7 SAQA Recognized) in
Labour Relations Management/ BCOM Law/ LLB/ Internal Audit. A valid driver’s
licence. Two (2) years Supervisory experience. Two (2) years functional
experience in Auditing / Financial Management. KNOWLEDGE: Department
policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and
Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA, SDLA,
LRA, UI Contribution Act, Skills Development Act, Employment Equity Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal
skills, Problem solving skills, interviewing listening and observation,
Communication Skills (Verbal and Written), Innovative, Analytical, Research,
Project management.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of UIA and COIDA strategy programs. Implement
the system that provide expert advice on sector specific UIA & COIDA matters.
Control the process that monitor and evaluate impact of UIA & COIDA
programs. Monitor the implementation of Advocacy Campaigns on COIDA
regularly and when there are amendments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700
Or hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Jobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
POST 13/24 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT PROJECTS REF NO: HR4/4/3/2/ASDITP/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Information Technology /
Project Management. Four (4) years functional experience of which two (2)
years must be functional experience in ICT Project Management environment
and two (2) years supervisory experience. Knowledge: Project Management
principles and methodologies. Project Management Information Systems
(PMBOK, MS projects etc.). Application of research methodology. Quality
management principles and processes. Public Service Act (PSA). Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA).
Unemployment Insurance Amendment Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Financial/Budget Management.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal. Report
Writing. Project Management. Project monitoring and evaluation. Planning and
Organizing. Analytical. Creativity. Facilitation. Presentation.
DUTIES : Manage delivery ICT projects within the Fund. Manage ICT project deliverables
in line with the Fund strategic objectives, quality standards and expectations.
Ensure project quality management. Facilitate the implementation of projects
within the Fund. Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment / Assets)
within the project.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ntoyi-Baba Tel No: (012) 337 1784
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF.
NOTE : Coloured Males, White Males, White Females, African Females, Coloured
Females, Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROCESS IMPROVEMENT AND CHANGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDCM/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Organizational Psychology
/ Public Administration/ Public Management / Management Services / Human
19
Resources / Operations Management / Production Management. Four (4)
years’ experience of which two (2) years must be functional experience in
Change Management environment and two (2) years’ experience at a
supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Project Management approaches, tools and phases. Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA). Public Service
Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Skills: Communication both written and
verbal. People Management. Problem Solving. Computer Literacy. Time
Management. Analytical. Presentation. Interpersonal. Report writing. Planning
and Organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate diagnoses of the organizational, individual culture and climate
change within the Fund. Coordinate the development, review and
implementation of change management strategy. Facilitate the development,
review and implementation of procedure manuals and processes. Manage
resources (Human, Financial Equipment, Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Mahlake Tel No: (012) 337 1579
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF12@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Males, White Males, White Females, African Females, Coloured
Females, Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/26 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDOSS/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Operations Management/ Business Administration/ Operations
Research/ Finance. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years must be
functional experience in Operations environment and two (2) years’ experience
at Practitioner level. Knowledge: Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Labour Relations Act (LRA). Skills: Communication. People Management.
Listening. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Analytical. Numeracy.
Interpersonal. Report writing. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate provincial operational performance. Coordinate the implementation
of new operational policies and procedures. Provide operational services in
provincial offices to ensure consistency. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GN Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 337 1508
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF13@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Males, White Males, White Females, African Females, Coloured
Females, Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDIA/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Auditing/ Auditing/ Accounting at
(NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA. Four (4) years’ experience of which
two (2) years must be functional experience in Internal Auditing environment
and two (2) years’ experience at supervisory level. Registered with the institute
of Internal Auditors. Knowledge: Conflict Management. Audit Techniques.
Policy analysis. International Professional Practices Framework. International
Standards for the professional Practice of Internal Auditing. Skills:
Communication. Coordinating. Presentation. Conflict and Problem Solving.
Planning and Organizing. Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Team Leadership.
Report Writing. Analytical. Self- Disciplined and Self-Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in the development of the three-year rolling and annual risk-
based audit plans. Coordinate a strategic risk-based audit plan in the fund.
Undertake consulting and assurance services. Coordinate the provision of
support services to the audit committee. Liaise with external auditors on the
20
audit scope coverage. Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/
Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mabago Tel No: (012) 337 1790
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Males, White Males, White Females, African Females, Coloured
Females, Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDER/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human Resources
Management / Labour Relations Management / LLB as recognized by SAQA.
A valid Driver License. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years must
be functional experience in Labour Relations environment and two (2) years at
a supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations
Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC and CCMA Procedure.
Skills: Negotiation. People Management. Problem Solving. Presentation.
Planning and Organizing. Communication. Computer Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate Labour Relations cases in the fund (i.e. grievances, misconduct
and Labour disputes). Facilitate the implementation the Implementation of
Labour Relations, policies, guidelines, procedures and provide advice
therefore. Coordinate and represent the department in disciplinary hearings,
conciliations, arbitration and bargaining chambers (depending on the
complexity of the case). Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment /
Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TD Modise Tel No: (012) 337 1976
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF15@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Males, White Males, White Females, African Females, Coloured
Females, Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/5
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Building Science/
Architecture/ Civil Engineering/Quantity Survey/ Facility Management/
Property Management. 4 years’ functional experience in facilities and building
management of which 2 years is supervisory experience. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund Value
Chain and business processes. Public Service, Policies and procedures.
Customer Services (Batho Pele Principles). Building/ engineering technical
knowledge. Legislative Requirement: Occupational Health and Safety Act
(OHS) relevant Regulations. CIDA. Public Service Regulations. Public service
Act. National Environmental Management Act. Public Finance Management
Act. National Treasury Regulations. National Building Regulations and Building
Standard Act. National Building Regulations and Building Standard Act. Skills:
Required Technical proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Decision making.
Budgeting and Financial Management. Communication and Information
Management. People and Performance Management. Planning and
Organizing. Problem solving. Project or programme management. Team
leadership.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of preventative maintenance plans to support
the objectives of the Fund. Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
repairs and maintenance projects. Coordinate facilities related contractors.
Management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Mokau at 060 971 4675
21
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 13/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BOARD AND CORPORATE SECRETARIAT POST
REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/6
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Public Administration/
Office Administration/ Business Administration/ Commerce Law/ Office
Management/ Public Management/ Administration Management: General. 4
years’ functional experience in secretariat/ administration of which 2 years is
supervisory. Knowledge: Department of Labour and Compensation Fund
objectives. Public services, policies and procedures. Batho Pele Principles.
Secretariat procedures and processes. King 4 Report. Compensation Fund
policies. Legislative Requirements: COIDA Act. Public Service Regulations.
Public service Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. LRA, EE Act, SDA
& BCEA. PFMA. POPI Act. Skills: Client orientation and customer focus. Good
co-ordination skills. Good Organizational and administrative skills. Good
interpersonal and stakeholder’s liaison skills. Decision making. Self-
Management. Communication (verbal and written) Report Writing. Minutes
Writing. Computer Literacy. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate secretariat services for Board, Sub-Committees of Boards and
Management Committee (MANCO) meetings. Facilitate the administrative
support and ensure compliance with governance. Coordinate administration
support to board and sub-committees. Management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Matabane Tel No: (012) 319 9218
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 13/31 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITIONS REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/7
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain Management/
Logistics/ Purchasing Management. Bcom Law will be added advantage. 2
years’ functional experience in SCM Contract Management and Demand and
Acquisitions. 2 years’ supervisory experience in SCM contract Management
and Demand and Acquisitions. Knowledge: Compensation Fund Services. Dol
and Fund policies and procedures. Relevant stakeholders. Customer Services
(Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge. SAP Knowledge. COIDA. Public
Service Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Promotion of Access
to Information Act. Legislative Requirements: Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA). PFMA. National Treasury Regulations (Practice
Notes key) BBBEE procurement provisions. Skills: Required Technical
proficiency in Supply Chain Management. Business Writing Skills. Decision
making. Budgeting and Financial Management. Customer focus and
Responsiveness. People and Performance Management. Planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Team leadership. External Environmental
Awareness.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment of different Bid committees. Coordinate the Bid
Committee process. Coordinate the Contract Management process.
Management of Resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Hadebe at 060 683 4325
22
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF13@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 13/32 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: PHYSICAL AND INFORMATION SECURITY
SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/ 4/3/1SPPISS/UIF
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA in Security
Management/Risk Management. Private Security Industry Regulatory
Authority (PSIRA) Grade B certificate. Two (2) years’ experience of which one
(1) year must be functional experience in security environment and one (01)
year supervisory experience. Registered with Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA). Security Management Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public
Service Act (PSA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Control of
Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act. National Intelligence Processes.
Criminal Procedures Act. Disaster Management Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Minimum Physical Security Standards. Minimum Information
Security Standards. Skills: People Management. Problem Solving.
Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Analysis. Communication. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing. Creativity.
DUTIES : Verify the provision of physical security services. Verify the rendering of
information security services. Maintain the access to the building and key
control. Supervise resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/ Assets) in the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TP Lebete Tel No: (012) 337 1749
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF16@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Indian Males, White Males and Indian Females, are
encouraged to apply.
POST 13/33 : TECHNICAL ASSISTANT: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING REF NO:
HR4/25/04/01 HO
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF 6) / Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Electrical Engineering. Valid driver’s licence No experience.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles,
Public Service and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHSAS, COIDA.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Problem solving, Interviewing listening and observation, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Occupational Health and Safety policies
to ensure implementation of strategies to the Department of Labour. Support
technical research on Occupational Health and Safety trends and bench
marking. Provide technical assistance in the evaluation of applications for
entities regularly as per OHS programme. Provide administrative support to
ensure that the objectives of the directorate are fulfilled.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Monyaki/ Ms T Thupe Tel No: (012) 309 4392/4393
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ10@labour.gov.za
POST 13/34 : OHS INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Sasolburg Ref No: HR 4/4/8/909 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Bethlehem Ref No: HR 4/4/8/910 (X1 Post)
23
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus three (3) year recognised qualification (NQF6) /(NQF7)
in the relevant field, i.e. Mechanical Engineering; Mechatronic Engineering;
Electrical Engineering; Chemical Engineering; Chemistry; Construction;
Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Health. A valid driver’s license. No
experience required. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures.
Occupational Health and Safety. Regulations (21). South African National
Standards (Codes). Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act.
Unemployment Insurance Act.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm legislations of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with labour legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating
from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour
legislations independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile
report. Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of
regional inspections plans and reports including, execution of analysis and
compilations of consolidates statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Lelope Tel No: (016) 970 3200
Mr T Moholi Tel No: (058) 303 5293
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 13/35 : OHS INSPECTOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Gqeberha Ref No: HR /05/02/01 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: East London Ref No: HR/05/02/02 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year tertiary
qualification (NQF6) in Labour Relation/ B-Tech degree in Labour
Relations(NQF7)/ LLB for BCEA or Electrical/Mechanical Engineering/
Environmental Health/ Analytical Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering/ Civil &
Construction Engineering for OHS. A valid driver license. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7500, East London
Mr. MP Ngqolowa Tel No: (041) 506 5000, Port Elizabeth
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X 9084, East London
5200 or hand or delivered at Cnr. Oxford & Hill Street, East London. Email:
Jobs-EC8@labour.gov.za
24
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045, Port Elizabeth,
6000 or hand delivered at VSN Centre 116 -134 Goven Mbeki Avenue, Port
Elizabeth; Email: Jobs-EC8@labour.gov.za
POST 13/36 : OHS INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & HYGIENE REF NO: HR
4/4/6/206
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Lephalale (Thabazimbi Satellite Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three year recognized qualification at NQF6/7 SAQA
recognized) in the relevant field i.e Occupational Hygiene/Environmental
Health. A valid driver’s license. Registration with the relevant, recognized
professional body is an advantage but not compulsory. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes_ -
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
Organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiations skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalize independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and Conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislations independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290 1768
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700
Or hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Job-
LEPH@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
POST 13/37 : OHS INSPECTOR: CIVIL AND CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Lephalale Ref No: HR4/4/6/207 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Jane Furse Ref No: HR4/4/6/208 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Makhado Ref No: HR 4/4/6/209 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three-year qualification at NQF6/7 in the relevant field
i.e. Construction. Registration with the relevant, recognized professional body
is an advantage but not compulsory and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes_ -
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
Organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiations skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalize independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as State witness. Plan and
25
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and Conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislations independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700
Or hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Job-
LEPH@labour.gov.za (Lephalale)
For Jane Furse, Email: Job-JF@labour.gov.za
For Makhado, Email: Job-MAKH@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
POST 13/38 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PENSION ADMINISTRATOR REF
NO: HR 4/4/6/205
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Modimolle Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF6/7 SAQA recognized in Public
Management / Public Administration / Social Science / OHS/ Finance / HRM.
Two (2) years functional experience in a Pension administration / claims
processing. Knowledge: Compensation Fund objectives and business
functions, Compensation Fund Value Chain and business processes, Relevant
Fund policies, procedures and processed, Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles), Risk awareness, COID Tarriffs. Skills: Required Technical
Proficiency, Communication (verbal, written, listening and questioning skills),
Fund Operating Systems, Data capturing, Data and records management,
Telephone skills and etiquette, Planning and organizing, Analytical thinking,
Problem solving, Decision making.
DUTIES : Render Pension Administrative duties. Claims adjudication and processing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700
Or hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Job-
MOD@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
POST 13/39 : OHS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR 4/4/6/203
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognized qualification at NQF6/7 in
the relevant field, i.e. Mechanical Engineering/ Mechatronic Engineering.
Registration with the relevant, recognized professional body is an advantage
but not compulsory. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Department policies
and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended,
Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated
Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and
Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Facilitation Skills, Planning
and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills,
Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills,
Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Communication Skills (Verbal and Written).
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalize independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a state witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns an all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
26
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical report on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290 1768
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700
Or hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Job-
MOD@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane.
POST 13/40 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: INDIVIDUAL RELATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/8
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification at NQF Level 6 in Labour
Relations/HRM/Labour Law/ LLB. 2 years’ functional experience in Employee
Relations/ Labour Relations. Knowledge: Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Relevant stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Legislative Requirement: Constitution Act 108 of 1996 (amended).
Public Service Act of 1994. Public Service Regulations. Employment Equity
Act. Skills Development Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. COIDA.
Public service Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). PFMA and
National Treasury Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act.
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act. Skills: Business Writing Skills.
Decision making. Self-Management. Communication and Information
Management. Continuous improvement. Customer Focus and
Responsiveness. Planning and organizing. Problem solving. Employee
Relations skills. Relevant Regulatory knowledge, Law and Legislation.
Investigation and Critical Evaluation. Grievance and Dispute Resolution.
Negotiation and mediation. Data Gathering and Analysis. Strategic Reporting.
Data Integrity and Management. Stakeholder Development and Management.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyze all grievances and complains received from employees
in the Fund. Draft charges for misconduct cases in the Fund. Represent the
fund in all disputes referred to the General Public Service Sectoral Bargaining
Council (GPSSBC) and the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration (CCMA). Monitoring information and records of all activities in the
employment relations. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MC Kgare at 060 989 8691
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 13/41 : ADMIN OFFICER: VETTING REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/9 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Security
Management/Security Risk Management/Computer Science/Policing. Private
Security Industry Regulatory Authority-Grade C. 1-year functional experience
in information security environment. Knowledge: Public Service Regulation.
Dol and Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation
Fund value chain. Directorate goals and performance requirements. PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). COIDA.
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Legislative Requirement: Minimum
Information Security Standard. National Strategic Intelligence Act. Criminal
Procedure Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act. Protection of Personal Information Act. Protection
of Information Act. Constitution of South Africa. Skills: Data Capturing.
Telephone Skills and Etiquette. Security Skills. Communication (verbal and
written). Investigate Skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective information security practices and compliance in the Fund.
Protect and safeguard the Fund’s information. Coordinate information security
awareness in the Fund. Administer and facilitate pre-screening and vetting
clearance applications process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Makubela Tel No: (012) 319 9166
27
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF16@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 13/42 : CLAIMS ASSESSOR REF NO: HR4/4/02/02
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Rustenburg
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF6 SAQA recognized) in Public
Management/ Business Management/ Public Administration/ Business
Administration/ Administration Management/ Management/ Financial
Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting/ Operations Management/
Production Management/ Auditing/ HRM/ Nursing. One (1) year functional
experience in claims/ medical processing environment. Knowledge: Relevant
Compensation policies, procedures and business process. Public Service Act
and regulations. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principe’s). COID Tariffs.
Public Service charter. Approved COID Delegation. Promotion of Access to
Information Act. Road Accident Fund (RAF) Act. PFMA and Treasury
regulations. Skills (with related knowledge). Planning and organising. Problem
Solving. Analytical. Decision making. Communication (written and verbal).
Computer literacy. Good Client Relations. Interpersonal Relationship. Data
and records management.
DUTIES : Adjudicate registered claims as per delegation’s requirements. Prepare
complex claims. Coordinate, capture and approve Compensation Benefits.
Handle claims enquiries and advocacy sessions. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Shongwe Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW2@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/43 : COID EMPLOYER AUDITOR REF NO: HR4/4/02/03
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mmabatho Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF6) National Diploma/ (NQF7) Bachelor’
Degree in Financial Accounting/ BCOM Accounting/Accounting/ BCOM LAW/
BCOM in Commence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures.
Batho Pele Principles. Compensation of Occupational and injury Disease Act.
(CODIA). OHS Act and regulations. UIA & UICA. Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. Public Finance Management Act. (PFMA). Skills:
Facilitation. Planning and organizing. Communication written and verbal.
Computer literacy. Interpersonal. Innovation and creative.
DUTIES : Conduct payroll audit on employers in terms of COIDA. Investigate complaints
made with COIDA within prescribed time frames. Issue enforcement notices on
non-compliant employers within the prescribed time frames. Prepare
documents for prosecution of non-compliant employers within the prescribed
time frames. Prepare statistics on a weekly basis to report Performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Shongwe Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW3@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/44 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: DEBTORS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1/SADM/UIF
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Accounting / Financial
Management / Cost and Management Accounting / Public Finance
Management / Internal Audit / Taxation. One (1) year functional experience in
the Finance environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public
Service Act (PSA). Generally recognized Accounting Principles (GRAP).
28
General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Unemployment Insurance
Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Debtors
Management. Financial Management. Skills: Accounting. Communication.
Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Time Management. Report Writing. Planning
and Organizing. Numeracy. Analytical.
DUTIES : Maintain the debtor records. Follow up of outstanding debts including legal
claims and third party collection. Prepare and review monthly reconciliations of
non SARS debtors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Pillay Tel No: (012) 337 1499
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF17@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Indian Males, White Males and Indian Females, are
encouraged to apply.
POST 13/45 : EMPLOYER AUDIT OFFICER REF NO: HR 4/4/7/24 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Three- year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF 7) in
Labour Relations Management/ BCOM LAW/LLB/Internal Audit. One (1) year
functional experience in Auditing. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
procedures, Batho Pele, Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS Act and
Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA, SDLA, LRA, UI Contribution Act,
Skills development Act, Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning
and Organizing, Computer Literacy, interpersonal, Problem Solving,
interviewing skills, Communication Written and Verbal, Innovative, Analytical,
Research, Project Management.
DUTIES : Perform Monitor the implementation of UIA and COIDA Programmes, Analyse
the systems that provide expert advice on sector specific UIA& COIDA matter.
Coordinate the process that monitors and evaluates impact of UIA & COIDA
programs. Provide support in the implementation of Advocacy Campaigns on
UI & COIDA regularly and when there are amendments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ABM Mampuru Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035
Hand delivered at Corner of Hoffmeyer and Beatty Avenue Emalahleni. Email:
Jobs-MP-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/46 : UI EMPLOYER AUDIT SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: HR 4/4/6/204
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (National Diploma NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Internal Audit/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and
Management Accounting/ Financial Information System/ B. Com Accounting/
B. Compt Accounting/ B. Com Law/ LLB/ Financial Management. A valid motor
vehicle driving license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and Procedures,
Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS Act and
Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA, NMWA, LRA, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act, Inspectors Code of Conduct. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving,
interviewing listening and observation, Communication Written and Verbal,
Innovative, Analytical, Research.
DUTIES : Conduct audits to determine compliance with UIA and UICA. Serve
enforcement notices on non-complying employers. Refer non complying
employers for prosecution. Provide support in the implementation of Advocacy
Programs on the UIA and UIC Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Jobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane.
POST 13/47 : MEDICAL CASE ADJUDICATOR: PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GRADE 1-3)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
29
Grade 2: R396 132 – R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HR4/4/02/04
REQUIREMENTS : 4 years’ degree (NQF7)/ 3 years’ diploma in Nursing (NQF6). Post basic
Diploma in Occupational Health/ Theatre Technique/ Critical Care will be an
advantage. Valid Driver’s Licence is required. Grade 1: 2-9 years’ experience
gained after registration, Grade 2: 10-19 years’ experience gained after
registration & Grade 3: 20 years above experience gained after registration in
trauma/emergency/internal medical/ general surgery/ Orthopaedics/ theatre at
the regional public hospital level or private hospital, gained after registration.
Post basic Diploma in Occupational Health/ Theatre Technique/ Critical Care
will be an added advantage. Experience in medical claims processing/
insurance environmental will be on an added advantage. Registration with
South African Nursing Council. Knowledge: DoL and Compensation Fund
objectives and business functions. Compensation Fund Services. Directorate
or sub-directorate goals and performance requirements. Nursing legislations
and related legal as well ethical nursing practices. Compensations Fund
policies, procedure and processes. Stakeholders and customers. Customers
Service (Batho Principles). COIDA tariffs. Technical knowledge. PFMA and
national Treasury Regulations. Public Service Act. Skills: Rehabilitation.
Analytical. Business. Financial management. Knowledge Management.
Planning and Organizing. Problem solving and Analysis. Decision Making.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
DUTIES : Coordinate early rehabilitation interventions according to beneficiaries needs.
Provide early rehabilitation intervention according to beneficiaries’ needs.
Facilitate early to work and community re-integration programmes. Maintain
relationships and empower all internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MO Maluleke Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW4@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/48 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACER/UIF
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. No experience required. Knowledge: Batho Pele
Principles. Service Charter. Skills: Communication. Listening. Time
Management. Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Data Capturing.
DUTIES : Process the registration of employers. Process declaration forms of
employees. Maintain employer’s database. Provide general clerical support
services within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Matlou Tel No: (012) 337 1635
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF18@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Indian Males, White Males and Indian Females, are
encouraged to apply.
POST 13/49 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: COID (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Carolina Ref No: HR4/4/7/26(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Vryburg Ref No: HR4/4/02/05(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Volkrust Ref No: HR4/4/7/33(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulation, Compensation Fund business strategies and goals,
Compensation Fund value chain, Directorate goals and performance
requirements, PFMA and Treasury Regulations and Customer care (Batho
Pele Principles). Skills: Computer literacy, Business writing skills, Listening
skills, Telephone etiquette and Basic interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Receive and verify documents for registration. Register the claims on the
operational system. Assist employer services at the kiosk, online system and
service centres. Handle all service related queries and complaints.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RL Mokoena Tel No: (017) 843 1077/2111/3190, (Caroline)
30
Mr SS Shongwe Tel No: (018) 387 8100, (Vryburg)
Mr M Makate Tel No: (017) 826 1883, (Volkrust)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X718 Carolina 1185,
Landbou Building 20B Breytenbach Street, Carolina or email: Jobs-
CRL@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X34, Piet Retief,
2380. Balalas Building, 42, Kotze Street, eMkhondo or email: Jobs-
PRT@LABOUR.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW5@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 13/50 : CLAIMS PROCESSOR REF NO: HR 4/4/8/911
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office Free State
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate/ Three (3) years tertiary qualification (NQF7) Degree/
Diploma (NQF6) in Public Management/ Administration/ Social Science/OHS/
Finance/ HRM is required. 1-2 years’ experience on Compensation or Medical
Claims processing environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies,
procedure and processes, Relevant Stakeholders, Human anatomy/ Biology
and medical terminology, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), COID
tariffs, Public Service Charter, Approved COID Delegation, Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Road Accident Fund (RAF) Act, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Requires Technical Proficiency, Numeracy, Business
Writing Skills, Required IT Skill, Communication (written and verbal) Data
Capturing, Data and records management, Telephone Skills and Etiquette.
DUTIES : Handle claims registration documentation. Prepare for adjudication (claims
processing). Prepare for medical claims processing. Render administrative
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Zakwe Tel No: (051) 505 6300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 13/51 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: UIF (X24 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Thaba- Nchu Satellite Office Ref No: HR 4/4/8/906 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethlehem Ref No: HR/4/4/8/907 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sasolburg Ref No: HR 4/4/8/908 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mogwase Ref No HR4/4/02/07 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Vryburg Ref No: HR4/4/02/07 (1X Post)
Labour Centre: Potchefstroom Ref No: HR4/4/02/08 (X1 Post)
Christiana Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/02/09 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kokstad Ref No: HR4/4/5/5 (X2)
Labour Centre: Richmond Ref No: HR4/4/5/6(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ulundi Ref No: HR4/4/5/7 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Dundee Ref No: HR4/4/5/8(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ladysmith Ref No: HR4/4/5/9(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Estcourt Ref No: HR4/4/5/10 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mthatha Ref No: HR4/4/10/01 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Kariega Ref No: HR4/4/10/02 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12\ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
vision, Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Procedures and
Guidelines Skills: Interviewing, Communication (verbal and written), Listening,
Computer Literacy, Customer Relations, Analytical, Time Management,
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, on job training (operation system).
DUTIES : Provide screening service. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Ngono Tel No: (051) 933 2299
Mr T Moholi Tel No: (051) 303 5293
31
Ms Lelope Tel No: (051) 970 3200
Mr SS Shongwe Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (North-West)
Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 727 2140 (Kokstad)
Mr P Mtolo Tel No: (033) 212 2768 (Richmond)
Mr T Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8800 (Ulundi)
Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (034) 212 2421 (Dundee)
Ms L Radebe Tel No: (036) 638 1900 (Ladysmith)
Mr J Fakazi Tel No: (036) 352 7767 (Estcourt)
Ms S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600 (Mthatha)
Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 260 0608 (Kariega)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein,
9300 or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street,
Bloemfontein. Email: jobs-fs1@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735
or hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email:
Jobs-NW6@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre, PO Box 260, Kokstad, 4700 or
hand deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN1@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Richmond Labour Centre, PO Box 852, Richmond, 3780
or hand deliver at 60 Shepstone Street, Richmond. For Online Applications
Email to: Jobs-KZN2@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, Private Bag X56, Ulundi, 3838 or
hand deliver at Unit A Wombe, Street Ulundi. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN3@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Dundee Labour Centre, PO Box 445, Dundee, 3000 or
hand deliver at 63 Victoria Street, Dundee. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN4@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ladysmith Labour Centre, Private Bag X9925, Ladysmith,
3370 or hand deliver at 35 Keate Street, Ladysmith. For Online Applications
Email to: Jobs-KZN5@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Estcourt Labour Centre, P O Box 449, Estcourt, 3310 or
hand deliver at 75 Phillip Street, Estcourt. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN6@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X5080, Mthatha,
5100, Hand deliver at No.18 Corner of Madeira & Elliot Street Old Manpower
Building, Mthatha, 5100. Email: Jobs-EC6@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, P.O. Box 562 Kariega 6230,
Hand deliver at 15A Chase Street, Kariega, 6230. Email: Jobs-
EC3@labour.gov.za
POST 13/52 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Germiston Ref No: HR 4/4/4/02/04 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Soshanguve Ref No: HR 4/4/4/02/03 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: KZN Ref No HR4/4/5/26 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Experience: 0 to 6 months. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Public Service Regulation, Public Service Act, Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental Policies and procedures, Customer Care. Skills: Communication
(verbal & written), Listening, Computer literacy, Customer Relations, Decision
making.
DUTIES : Receive and assess all the UI Claims on the relevant systems in line with the
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Register all employers and verify the
declaration of employees as per the relevant prescripts. Execute the payment
of approved claims as per the set times frames. Attend to enquiries relating to
all the processed claims or any other matter relating to the processing of
claims. Perform administrative duties in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ceaser Tel No: (011) 345 6300/ Mr T Nengwekhulu Tel No: (018) 632
4779
Ms G Khomo Tel No: (031) 366 2331
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001
or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.47 Empire
Road, Park town. Email: Jobs-GP6@labour.gov.za
32
Deputy Director: Provincial Operations: PO BOX 940, Durban, 4000 or
hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online Applications
Email to: Jobs-KZN8@Labour.gov.za
POST 13/53 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ANTI-FRAUD AND ANTI-
CORRUPTION REF NO: HR4/4/3/1SACAFAC/UIF
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service
Act (PSA). Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Unemployment
Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Minutes
writing. Report writing. Analytical and Creativity. Planning and Organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services to the fraud and corruption
investigation processes. Provide an effective case administration. Provide
logistical arrangements in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GS Phoshoko Tel No: (012) 337 1978
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF19@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Males, White Females, African
Males, Coloured Males and Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/54 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: HR OPERATION REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/10
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12. Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Human
Resource Management and an Introduction to PERSAL Certificate would be
an added advantage. No Experience. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
objectives and business functions. Directorate or sub-directorate goals and
performance requirements. Compensation Fund Services. Compensation
Fund Value chain and business processes. Stakeholders and customers.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Risk Awareness. COIDA Act,
Regulations and Policies. Human Resource planning procedure. Legislative
Requirement: COIDA Act, Regulations and Policies. Public service Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations. General knowledge of the Public Service Regulations. Skills:
Required Technical Proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Data Capturing. Data
and records management. Telephone Skills and Etiquette.
DUTIES : Administer the filling of vacancies for the Fund. Administer HR Information
system. Administer recruitment and selection activities. Safe keep HR records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SV Radzuma/ Ms CL Mashishi Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF20@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 13/55 : ADMIN CLERK: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/5/37
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Knowledge: Regulatory Knowledge, Law and Legislation, Data
capturing, Collecting statistics, Compensation Fund business processes,
procedure, policies, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Technical
Knowledge, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Promotion Access to
Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Labour
Law, Road Accident Fund Act, The Constitution of RSA, COIDA Act. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Interpersonal Relations, Communication (written & verbal),
Attention to detail, Emotional Intelligence, Ethics and Governance, Team
orientation.
33
DUTIES : Liaise with provinces and labour centres for the provision of required
information and data. Manage correspondence and documentation. Render
effective administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Kahla Tel No: (031) 366 2033
APPLICATIONS : Senior Manager: Provincial Operations: PO BOX 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN9@Labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Deputy Director: Human Resource Operations, KwaZulu-
Natal.
POST 13/56 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/3/1SO/UIF
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) Grade C. No
experience. Registered with Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority
(PSIRA). Knowledge: Access to Public premises and vehicles Act. Private
Security Industry Regulatory Authority Procedures. Evacuation Procedures.
Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS). Minimum Physical Security
Standards (MPSS). Batho Pele Principles. Public Service Regulation Act
(PSR). Departmental policies and procedures. Skills: Verbal and written
communication. Problem solving skills. Analytical skills. Computer skills. Good
Interpersonal relations skills. Communication skills. Customer Care skills.
DUTIES : Provide Physical security services. Render information security services.
Render access to the building and key control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TP Lebete Tel No: (012) 337 1749
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF20@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Males, White Females, African
Males, Coloured Males and Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/57 : MESSENGER / DRIVER REF NO: HR4/4/3/1MD/UIF
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. Valid driver license. No experience required. Knowledge: National
Traffic Regulations. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Act (PSA). Batho Pele Principles.
Interpretation (ability to interpret road signs and map book). Pre-Trip Inspection
/ Vehicle Safety Inspection. Rules of the road. Skills: Analysis. Communication
(verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Listening. Interpretation (ability to
interpret road signs and map book). Pre- Trip Inspection / Vehicle Safety
Inspection. Driving.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicle to transport passengers and delivery
other items e.g mail and documents. Complete all the required and prescribed
records and logs books with regard to the vehicle and the goods handled.
Render clerical support/ messenger service in the relevant office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DS Mohlala Tel No: (012) 337 1417
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building,
Pretoria. Email: Jobs-UIF21@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Males, White Females, African
Males, Coloured Males and Indian Males are encouraged to apply.
34
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only,
to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and driver’s
license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates
only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting
to determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to:
Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for all applicants for
SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must
provide proof of successful completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted
for the posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and the
technical exercise of all SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/58 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF NO:
CFO11/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/ Auditing or relevant qualification
within the Financial Management field on (NQF7) as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 (five) years of experience at middle/senior managerial level
within the relevant field. Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG).
Knowledge of Financial prescripts (MCS and GRAP), Knowledge of Public
Service financial legislative frameworks; Public Finance Management Act;
National Treasury Regulations (Directives, Instruction notes and guidelines);
Budget Management processes and procedures and Supply Chain
Management Framework. Knowledge on International Accounting Standards.
35
Knowledge on International Auditing Standards. Knowledge of Government
Financial systems (PERSAL, LOGIS, BAS). Knowledge of asset management,
procurement and business practices. Knowledge of strategic planning and
budgeting; Auditing and Risk management. Stakeholder engagement;
Strategic Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management; People Management and Empowerment. Ability to
gather and analyse information. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies,
strategies and legislation. Good Communication skills (written and spoken);
Problem Solving and Analysis skills; good organising and planning skills.
DUTIES : Ensure effective monitoring of compliance with the Treasury Regulations,
Modified Cash Standard or Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP)
and other Prescripts impacting on Finance and Supply Chain Management
(SCM). Ensure sound internal controls and reporting systems. Assess internal
controls on finance and supply chain systems for non-compliance. Monitor and
evaluate compliance processes with relevant policies and procedures. Monitor
and review of policies, delegations and business processes within Finance and
SCM. Provide a framework for financial risk assessment. Develop and oversee
systems for uniform handling of non-compliance issues and proper reporting.
Develop/implement corrective action plans to address control weaknesses.
Ensure effective audit coordination, both for Internal Audit and the office of the
Auditor-General of South Africa. Coordinate the development, monitoring and
evaluation of Audit Action Plans derived from internal and external audit
findings. Ensure progress report over the compliance objectives and the
implementation of action plans are submitted. Provide strategic advice/support
to the Chief Financial Officer in respect to Audits and Financial Management.
Oversee timely resolution of audit queries. Manage the provision of Fraud
Prevention and Loss Management. Conduct determination tests on reported
cases of irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Analyse quarterly and
annual financial reports. Provide monthly report to National Treasury and the
CFO on reported cases of irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure.
Provide effective financial systems and support services. Provide advice on the
implementation of financial management policies, processes (manual and
automation initiatives), procedures, standards, systems and practices. Ensure
good governance in line with treasury guidelines and regulations and the
PFMA. Overseeing and monitoring the implementation of the compliance
programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha Tel No: (012) 399 9602/ (012) 399 8635
APPLICATIONS : CFO11-2025@dffe.gov.za
36
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical and
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/59 : FAMILY ADVOCATE LP7-LP8 REF NO: 2025/01/MP
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidates will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: KwaMhlanga Magistrate Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized 4-year legal qualification. Admitted as an
Advocate / Attorney; At least 5 years appropriate post qualification, litigation
and family law experience. A valid driver’s license. Skills and competencies:
Good communication skills (verbal and written); Litigation and Advocacy skills;
Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management and
Mediation.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family
Advocate in accordance with relevant legislation; Endorse settlement
agreements or commenting thereon; Institute and conduct enquires to
ascertain the best interest of the minor child by means of ADR procedures and
evaluation; Deal with Hague matters and all relevant circuit courts within the
province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to; The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, Nelspruit, 1200 or 24 Brown Street, 4TH
Floor Nedbank Centre Nelspruit, 1200.
37
POST 13/60 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: (MR-6) REF NO: 24/71/DG
This is a re-advertisement
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or 4 years recognized legal qualification; At least 8 years
appropriate post qualification legal experience; Knowledge of the South African
Legal System, Legal Practices and related spheres with specific reference to
civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the Constitution, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Departmental
Financial Instructions and the State Liability Act, Superior Courts Act and
Magistrates Court Act; Knowledge and experience in Office Administration.
Skills and Competencies: Legal research; Legal drafting; Applied strategic
thinking; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing
interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Team
leadership.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide guidance and advice on various legal and
policy frameworks and regulations; Provide legal advice for the Office of the
Director-General; Coordinate Statutory Structures of which the Director-
General is responsible; Attend meetings and workshops as required, providing
support as required and monitor decisions; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Maeko Tel No: (012) 315 1996
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical address: Application
Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Street, Pretoria.
POST 13/61 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE REF NO: 25/01/KZN
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Financial Accounting/ Management or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6; A minimum of 3 years working experience in a
finance environment; Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act (PFMA)
and National Treasury Regulations, Financial Instructions and Directives. Skills
and competencies: Knowledge of BAS, Planning and organizing, Ability to
implement internal systems and controls; Problem solving skills and analysis,
Listening skills, Team work, communication skills (written and verbal),
Computer literacy (MS Office with focus on Excel and PowerPoint), Customer
focus and responsiveness, Ability to work under pressure, Ability to work in a
team and independently, Creative and Innovation skills, Financial management
skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Effective management of budget in accordance with
the relevant prescripts which includes budget capturing, budget management,
budget reporting. Effective management of expenditure in accordance with
relevant prescripts, this includes processing of approved payments, Petty cash
and PAYE. Effective management of Revenue in accordance with the relevant
prescripts, this includes receipting and banking of all monies received due to
the department. Effective participation during the audit performance by
Internal/External auditors. Supervise and manage Accounting Clerks within
Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address.
38
POST 13/62 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES & MISCELLANEOUS PAYMENTS REF
NO: 25/02/KZN
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Financial Accounting/ Management or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6; A minimum of 3 years working experience in a
finance environment; Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act (PFMA)
and National Treasury Regulations, Financial Instruction and Directives. Skills
and competencies: Knowledge of PERSAL, Planning and organizing, Ability to
implement internal systems and controls; Problem solving skills and analysis,
Listening skills, Team work, communication skills (written and verbal),
Computer literacy (MS Office with focus on Excel and PowerPoint), Customer
focus and responsiveness, Ability to work under pressure, Ability to work in a
team and independently, Creative and Innovation skills, Financial management
skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Effective management of Subsistence and travel
allowance claims in accordance with the relevant prescripts; this includes
checking of correctness, calculating and approval/authorizing. Effective
management of all salary related transactions in accordance with the relevant
prescripts, this includes checking, calculating and approval/authorizing of all
salary related transactions. Effective participation during the audit performance
by Internal/External auditors. Supervise and manage accounting clerks within
the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address.
POST 13/63 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 25/03/KZN
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of the High Court, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate) or equivalent qualification with one of the
following as a passed subject (Maths or Accounting). Skills and Competencies:
Communication Skills (Verbal & Written); Interpersonal relations; Computer
literacy; Numerical Skills; Ability to work under pressure and be self- motivated;
Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render financial accounting transactions;
Bookkeeping support services; Render budget support services; Capture all
financial transactions (e.g payments and receipts); Compile statistics and
attend to external and internal enquiries; Assist with general office duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N.F Nkosi Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban.
POST 13/64 : COURT INTERPRETER: REF NO: 25/04/KZN
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Magistrate Offices, Pinetown
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and two or more
indigenous languages; Language requirement: IsiZulu and IsiXhosa
(indigenous languages) are compulsory; Three months Practical experience
and driver’s license will be an added advantage. Applicants will be subjected
to a Language test. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office);
Good communication (written and verbal); Administration and organizational
39
skills; Ability to maintain interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address.
40
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 02 May 2025 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.Note: For emailed applications, please submit a single document
or one attachment per application to the email address designated for the
specific position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments
should not exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure
that their application is successfully submitted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/65 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/15
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
41
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A BSC Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification. Six years post
qualification Quantity Survey experience Required. Compulsory registration
with SACQSP as a professional Quantity Surveyor. Be in possession of a valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Experience in conducting Feasibility Studies
would be advantageous as well as knowledge or the Real Estate Industry and
Asset Management. A good understanding and competence in the context of
the built environment. Developed knowledge and understanding of National
Government’s responsibility to improve access to Government services.
Legislative and legal aspects of built environment developments and informed
decision-making. Knowledge of construction contract law to the extent applied
in the profession is also important. The understanding and application of
various facets of the quantity surveyor practice, including knowledge of
construction methods, techniques and systems applied in full spectrum of the
quantity survey profession. Skills: Well-developed project management,
Quantity Surveying, analytical, planning, legal compliance, interpersonal,
communication, executive report-writing and presentation skills as well as
computer literate and capable of operating the MS Office Suite. Must be an
innovative and creative thinker, resourceful, people orientated, assertive, hard-
working and self-motivated, be able to use Professional judgment in decision
making and be able to work under pressure. Must have the ability to conduct
cost estimation on small, large and mega projects as well as to project life cycle
costing in support of property and projects- related feasibility studies, capital
budgeting techniques and the development of capital breakdown structures.
DUTIES : Apply the policies, methods, practices and standards as well as ensure
compliance with Departmental space and cost norms requirements and
legislation. Using inputs from a multidisciplinary team, prepare cost estimates
on building projects or existing and proposed built infrastructure, consultants’
designs, drawings and details against best practice norms as applicable to new
installations, rehabilitation, refurbishment, upgrades and/or maintenance
contracts. Assess standards of installation, operations, maintenance and
records in relation to costs. Determine the cost efficiency of projects and its life
cycle costs and advise on optimizing building costs and time. Advise on the
economic life of existing systems and built infrastructure. Provide support to
inform feasibility studies in the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of
existing and proposed built infrastructure including cost and time implications.
Visit building sites to assess and develop technical reports. Make
recommendations on value-enhancing strategies for the government property
portfolio. Project manages the compilation of feasibility study reports within a
multidisciplinary team and according to given time frames. Make forecast on
the performance of state fixed assets while considering micro and macro-
economic policies and the impact thereof on state investment and the property
industry. Conduct sensitivity analysis to enable the formulation of proactive
strategies for optimum portfolio management. Assess the financial and socio-
economic benefits for all property investment/disinvestment option. Apply
policies, methods, best practices and standards well as ensure compliance
with Departmental requirements and legislation. Provide inputs into the
development of business processes and guidelines for making sound
investment decisions. Executive report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Cosa Tel No: (053) 838 5356
APPLICATIONS : Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301. Or Hand Deliver at 21-23
Market Square, Old Magistrate Building, Kimberley, 8301 or email to:
RecruitKIM25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. V Tidikwe
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/66 : PROFESSIONAL MECHANICAL ENGINEER (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/16
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering degree in mechanical engineering (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant
qualification. Three (03) years post qualification engineering experience
required. Valid motor vehicle driving license. Compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Knowledge of Mechanical Engineering best
practice in the construction industry, design codes, standards and NDPWI
manuals and guideline documents. Engineering design and analysis
42
knowledge. Programme and Project Management, extensive knowledge of all
mechanical engineering aspects of the building and construction environment,
Public Finance Management Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Supply
Chain Management, Contract Management. Ability to undertake critical
review/analysis and provide technical advice, research and development,
proficient in computer-aided engineering applications, ability to maintain
integrity of confidential information, financial administration, effective verbal
communication, advanced technical report writing, numeracy, computer
literacy, planning and organising, relationship management, programme and
project management, interpersonal and diplomacy skills, problem solving,
decision making, motivational skills, conflict resolution, negotiation skills,
analytical thinking, innovative, creative, solution orientated, ability to work
under stressful situations, ability to communicate at all levels, people oriented
trustworthy, assertive, hard-working, ability to work independently, prepared to
travel. Willing to adapt to working schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects, develop cost effective solutions according to standards, evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology, develop tender specifications, ensure through evaluation that
planning and design by others is done according to sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice, approve
engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards. Human
capital development: Developing solutions and to provide recommendations
and costs. Ensure training and development of technicians, technologists and
candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer, adherence to sound
engineering principles and code of practice. Creating high performance culture.
Supervise the engineering work and processes, administer performance
management and development. Conduct Office administration which includes
budget planning, management of resources. Prepare and consolidate inputs
for the facilitation of resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for the procurement of goods and services. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures, research/literature studies on engineering
technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Cosa Tel No: (053) 838 5356
APPLICATIONS : Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand Deliver at 21-23
Market Square, Old Magistrate Building Kimberley 8301 or email to:
RecruitKIM25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. V Tidikwe
POST 13/67 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO:
2025/17
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years
and six months certified experience. BTech (Built Environment field) with a
minimum of 4 years certified managerial experience. Honours degree in any
Built Environment field with a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager on appointment. Computer literacy, Knowledge
and understanding of the following Acts: Public Finance Management Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act as well as Building Regulations and
Environmental Conservation Act, Knowledge and understanding of the
Government Procurement System, Good planning, financial and budget skills,
Sound analytical and good written and verbal communication skills; Knowledge
and understanding of the JBCC and GCC form of contract.
DUTIES : Contribute to project initiation, scope definition and scope change control for
envisaged projects. Full project management function, cost, quality and time
control. Manage project cost estimates and control changes in line with
allocated budgets. Plan and attend project meetings during the project phases.
Assist with the compilation of projects documentation to support project
processes. Implement project administration processes according to
43
Government requirements. Ensure implementation of procurement activities
and adherence thereof to Government policies. Provide assistance in
implementing and assuring that project execution is in accordance with the
approved project norms and time schedules. Support the project environment
and activities to ensure that project objectives are delivered timeously. Manage
and engage in multi-disciplinary construction teams regarding the
construction/maintenance of facilities; Ensure that construction projects are
implemented and executed as envisaged in the acquisition/procurement plan
and that high quality projects are delivered within time, cost and quality
framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Sewada Tel No: (012) 310 5030
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo Sehume and Nana
Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 13/68 : CHIEF ARTISAN: CARPENTRY WORKSHOP REF NO: 2025/18
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD Salary)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten years post qualification experience
required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman in Carpentry. Knowledge of the PFMA
and the OHSA. Knowledge of Project Management, Technical design and
analysis. Knowledge: Computer-aided technical applications, knowledge of
legal compliance, technical report writing, technical consulting, Production,
process knowledge and skills. A valid driver’s License.
DUTIES : Effective supervision of day-to-day activities of the workshop, conduct regular
site inspections and ensure that all sites comply with the relevant statutory
regulations. Receive, attend to and follow up on outstanding job cards,
supervise the maintenance of government properties, safeguard and oversee
the maintenance of workshop equipment and vehicles, monitor the removal of
refuse and office furniture at state buildings, attend maintenance related
meetings with client departments. Assist with financial and procurement
administration process of workshops. Manage staff according to the PMDS.
Compile reports on Workshop activities
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private BagX229,
Pretoria, 0001 or 251 Skinner AVN Building, Cnr Andries and Skinner Street
Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 13/69 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: CARPENTRY WORKSHOP REF NO: 2025/19
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD Salary)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years post qualification experience as
an Artisan. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge of OHSA Act. A valid driver’s
license. Installation Rules.
DUTIES : Spot check technical faults for repairs or maintenance required. Oversee and
ensure that quotations are received and purchase required equipment and
materials. Oversee and ensure that the maintenance and faults repair registers
updated. Report writing. Repairs of faults.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private BagX229,
Pretoria, 0001 or 251 Skinner AVN Building, Cnr Andries and Skinner Street
Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 13/70 : ARTISAN: MECHANICAL (FITTER/ FITTER AND TURNER) WORKSHOP
REF NO: 2025/20
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD Salary)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Knowledge of OHSA Act. Knowledge of
operation of equipment, tools and materials. Knowledge of general built
environment. A valid driver`s license.
44
DUTIES : Maintain and repair technical faults related to carpentry according to standards.
Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications. Service
equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures serviced and
maintained equipment and/or facilities. Keep and maintain job record/register
of maintained and repaired faults. Report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo Sehume and Nana
Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-04@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms C. Lekganyane
POST 13/71 : ARTISAN: CARPENTRY WORKSHOP REF NO: 2025/21
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD Salary)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Knowledge of OHSA Act. Knowledge of
operation of equipment, tools and materials. Knowledge of general built
environment. A valid driver`s license.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair technical faults related to carpentry according to standards.
Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications. Service
equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and
maintained equipment and/or facilities. Keep and maintain job record/register
of maintained and repaired faults. Report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo Sehume and Nana
Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms C. Lekganyane
45
ANNEXURE G
STATISTICS SOUTH AFRICA
Stats SA provides scientific knowledge that enables society to understand complex socio-economic
phenomena. It draws its mandate from the Statistics Act, 1999 (Act No 6 of 1999). Stats SA strives to
excel in the following five competencies: Intellectual capability to lead the scientific work of statistics,
Technological competence for purposes of large-scale processing and for complex computations and
accessibility of information to the public, Logistical competence for deployment of (forward and reverse)
logistics of large-scale field operations and for strategic choices regarding operational efficiency and
cost-effectiveness, Political competence in understanding the political environment without being
political or Politicised (commitment of delivery without fear or favour), Administrative competence: The
ability of bringing it all together.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted online on the following link:
www.statssa.gov.za/recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online and must be completed in full on all
fields including the declaration part. Clear indication of the internship post and
reference number that is being applied for must be stated. A recent,
comprehensive CV, specifying all qualifications and experience, with
respective dates and copies of qualifications, ID and driver’s licence (where
applicable) must be uploaded on the system. Such copies need not be certified
when applying for a post. Only shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified documents on or before the day the interview following
communication from HR. Failure to complete the required fields or submit all
required documentation will automatically disqualify the applicant. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to suitability checks. SAQA evaluation certificate
must accompany foreign qualifications. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. General information:
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: TWENTY-FOUR (24) MONTHS
Statistics South Africa invites unemployed South African graduates to apply for the 2025/27 Internship
Programme. Graduates must be in possession of a completed National Diploma / Bachelor’s degree/
Honour’s degree/ Master’s degree in the below-mentioned disciplines/ fields. The fields of study must be
from an accredited institutions of higher learning. The applicants must not have previously participated
in an internship programme in the Public Service.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/72 : INTERN: STATISTICS REF NO: 01/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Statistics/ Mathematics/ Mathematical Statistics/ Applied
Statistics/ Demography or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/73 : INTERN: DATA SCIENCE REF NO: 02/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Data Science/ Data Analytics/ Data Quality Management/
Data Processing/ Statistics/ Information Management or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/74 : INTERN: TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 03/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
46
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Total Quality Management/ Project Management/ Project
Monitoring & Evaluation/ Economics or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/75 : INTERN: MONITORING & EVALUATION REF NO: 04/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Monitoring & Evaluation, Statistics/ Data Science/ Data
Analysis/ Demography/ Population Studies/ Geography/ Project Management
or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/76 : INTERN: DEMOGRAPHY & POPULATION STUDIES REF NO: 05/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Population Studies/ Demography/ Social Science/
Economics/ Statistics or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/77 : INTERN: COMPUTER SICENCE/ INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOY NO: 06/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Computer Science/ Information Communication Technology/
Networking/ Software Development/ Information Systems/ Informatics or
related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/78 : INTERN: GEOGRAPHY/ GIS REF NO: 07/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Geography/ Environmental Science/ Geographical
Information Systems/ Geomatics/ Cartography or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/79 : INTERN: ECONOMICS/ ECONOMETRICS REF NO: 08/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Economics/ Econometrics/ Business Economics/ Statistics/
Accounting/ Finance or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/80 : INTERN: BRAND VISUALISATION/ GRAPHIC DESIGN REF NO:
09/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Graphic Design/ Visual Communication/ Multimedia Design
or related fields.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/81 : INTERN: COMMUNICATION/ JOURNALISM REF NO: 10/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
47
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Communication/ Journalism/ Media Studies/ Public Relations/
Communication Studies or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
POST 13/82 : INTERN: LANGUAGE PRACTICE NO: 11/04/25HO
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Language Practice/ Linguistics/ BA majoring in English and
any of the official African Languages or related fields
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mamabolo Tel No: (012) 310 6941 and Mr C Letswalo Tel No: (012) 310
8476
48
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
and the selection panel for the SMS position will further recommend candidates
to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment. The Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG) must be completed before an
appointment can be considered. The course is available at the NSG under the
name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by
the following link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. No appointment will take place without the successful completion
of the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. It is the applicant's responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. Background
verification, social media checks, and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. the dtic
reserves the right not to fill any advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/83 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: REGULATORY POLICY AND LEGISLATION REF NO:
RB-038
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA, in Law, Economics,
Political Science or related field. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior
managerial level in a Law, Economics or Political Science environment.
DUTIES : Oversee identification, development and review of regulatory policies and
legislation. Lead regulatory impact assessments and manage policy
development projects. Provide leadership in various laws including consumer,
corporate, liquor, lottery and IP laws. Develop strategic direction for policy
implementation and oversee stakeholder interactions. Provide policy direction
to regulatory bodies and assess legislative effectiveness. Manage and provide
guidance on regulatory policy and legislation litigation related matters.
Coordinate policy inputs and represent the department in national and
international forums. Lead consultations, public hearings, prepare position
papers, and manage responses to Parliament. Provide leadership and policy
support to various statutory committees such as Specialist Committee on
Company Law etc. Oversee legislative drafting processes, manage
consultations, and facilitate approvals. Manage financial, human and strategic
49
resources of the Chief Directorate. Monitor and report on the implementation
of plans and legislative programs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
POST 13/84 : DIRECTOR: ACCOMMODATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
CMSB-024
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA, in a Facility
Management, Engineering or related field. PSIRA Grade A. 5 years of
experience at middle/senior management in a Facility Management
environment.
DUTIES : Develop and implement policies and strategies for effective facilities
management. Oversee office space allocation, asset management, building
maintenance, and utilities. Manage lease agreements and ensure compliance
with legislative requirements, including Public-Private Partnership (PPP)
frameworks. Drive cost efficiency in operations while ensuring a conducive
working environment. Develop, implement, and monitor security strategy,
policies and procedures in line with Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) and Minimum Physical Security Standards (MPSS). Ensure effective
access control, surveillance systems, and physical security measures.
Conduct security risk assessments, manage emergency response protocols,
and coordinate security operations with law enforcement agencies. Ensure a
robust personnel vetting and background screening process in collaboration
with the State Security Agency (SSA). Oversee risk profiling, security clearance
applications. Establish and maintain a compliant OHS framework in line with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Conduct regular risk assessments,
develop, implement and monitor safety strategy, oversee fire safety protocols,
and ensure effective emergency preparedness, including evacuation drills and
first aid readiness. Promote a safe and healthy workplace through awareness
programs and compliance monitoring. Oversee the budget planning,
expenditure control, and resource allocation for the Directorate. Provide
strategic input into policy development and ensure alignment with
organizational goals. Lead and manage a team of professionals to drive
efficiency and service excellence.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
POST 13/85 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT (NON-PROLIFERATION)
REF NO: TPN&C-064
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA, in Legal, International
Politics, Science or related field. Minimum of 5 years at a middle/senior
managerial level in Compliance and Enforcement or a regulatory environment
in the public/private sector.
DUTIES : Implement compliance programmes and ensure alignment with international
obligations. Conduct inspections, investigations and support international
verification visits. Enforce non-proliferation legislation and manage permit
systems. Liaise with industry and enforcement authorities to ensure
compliance. Engage with international bodies and represent SA in non-
proliferation platforms. Maintain relationships through MOUs, SLAs, and other
agreements. Manage financial and human resources and strategic planning for
the unit. Ensure effective administrative support to the South African Council
for the Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Review and
benchmark policies and methodologies. Maintain and enhance the online
registration and permit system. Ensure cybersecurity compliance through
regular assessments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
POST 13/86 : DIRECTOR: FORENSIC AUDIT REF NO: ODG-027
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
50
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA, in Forensic Auditing or
related field. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level
in a Forensic Auditing environment.
DUTIES : Oversee forensic audit allocations and review draft and final investigation
reports. Engage with the forensic panel and coordinate investigations. Review
forensic registers and manage case submissions and allocations. Manage
feedback to PSC on NACH cases received. Analyse cases received to
determine if preliminary assessment is needed or whether it must be allocated
to HR, Legal, or the dtic Entities. Ensure reports are supported by evidence
and aligned with legislation. Submit finalised reports and present to internal
committees and stakeholders. Conduct quality assessments and manage
reporting to Forensic In-Committee and Audit Committees. Liaise with clients
and stakeholders and manage relationships. Review and analyse budget
proposals from forensic panel firms and negotiate savings where possible.
Maintain forensic findings register and provide guidance on internal controls.
Track implementation of forensic report recommendations. Coordinate self-
assessments and contribute to internal audit opinion. Perform secretariat
functions for Forensic In-Committee meetings and represent forensics in other
key meetings. Present statistics and findings at RMC and Pre-Audit Committee
meetings. Prepare consequence management reports for the Ethics
Committee. Manage human and financial resources of the unit. Provide
strategic input and monitor investigation timelines. Monitor and review cases
allocated in-house and review and finalize in-house investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/87 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SECRETARIAT REF NO: ODG-022
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognized by SAQA, in Law / Governance
/ Secretariat or related field. Chartered Institute of Secretaries (CIS)
certification. 3 to 5 years in providing secretariat functions in the public/private
sectors.
DUTIES : Coordinate venues, documentation, presenters, and scheduling for Exbo and
subcommittee meetings. Draft and circulate agendas, collate and distribute
document packs. Provide in-meeting support including attendance registers,
disclosures, agenda and presentation management. Take minutes and
circulate minutes to members and submit them for approval within required
timelines. Conduct annual assessments and reviews of TORs and workplans.
Compile self-assessment reports and implement improvements. Maintain
contact lists, develop corporate calendars, and manage digital record keeping.
Provide extracts of minutes and update SOPs for secretariat processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
POST 13/88 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: PERFORMANCE AUDIT REF NO: ODG-045
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognized by SAQA, in Internal Auditing or
Accounting with majors in Auditing or Accounting or related fields. 1–2 years
experience in performance auditing in the public/private sector.
DUTIES : Prepare engagement documentation and analyse background information.
Identify focus areas, audit objectives and compile planning memos. Perform
control tests and compile working papers with audit evidence. Raise informal
queries and participate in audit fieldwork. Compile draft reports, obtain
comments, and follow up on audit findings. Participate in audit steering
committees and submit executive summaries. Assess APP planning and
evaluate quarterly/annual performance reporting. Submit accurate timesheets
and maintain audit files per the dtic standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
POST 13/89 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: COMPLIANCE AUDIT REF NO: ODG-045
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
51
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognized by SAQA, in Internal Auditing
with majors in Auditing or Accounting or related fields. 1–2 years experience in
compliance, operational, governance and financial auditing in the public/private
sector.
DUTIES : Prepare planning documentation and analyse background information. Identify
focus areas, audit objectives and compile scoping documents. Perform control
tests and compile working papers with audit evidence. Raise informal queries
and participate in audit fieldwork. Compile draft reports, obtain comments, and
follow up on audit findings. Participate in audit steering committees and submit
executive summaries. Assess Annual Performance Plan (APP) planning and
evaluate quarterly/annual performance reporting against submitted evidence.
Submit accurate timesheets, progress reports and maintain audit files per the
dtic and Global Internal Audit Standards (GIAS).
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1310
52
ANNEXURE I
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our intention
to promote representavity (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote retrospectivity will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs to be submitted
to: The HR Manager, P.O. Box 211, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered in
the box provided in the entrance at the Oliver Tambo House, St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein or they may be sent via email: recruitment1@fscogta.gov.za.
Please quote the reference number on your application.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on the new Z 83 forms,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
http://www.info.gov.za. Please further note that the new Z 83 forms must be
filled properly, in full and signed off accordingly and applicants are not required
to attach copies of qualifications, but such application forms should be
accompanied by a very detailed Curriculum Vitae. Please further note that only
short-listed candidates will submit proof of relevant qualifications (Separate
application for every vacancy). The onus is on the applicants to ensure that
their applications are sent, or hand delivered timeously. Short-listed candidates
who possess foreign qualifications and/or short courses certificates must take
it upon themselves to have their qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and will be required must please attach proof
of the level of their qualifications after evaluation on all applications. Please
note that all shortlisted candidates will be expected to fill in the Processing
Notification Form (Background Screening Request) giving this department
permission to conduct suitability checks. Prospective candidates may be
required to undergo security vetting, disclose her/ his financial interests and
social media checks, among others. Successful candidates will be required to
enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement. Successful
candidates on level 13 and higher must have completed Nyukela Certificate
and will undergo a Competency Test. No faxed or late applications will be
considered. Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of
appointment is received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept
that their application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/90 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: COGTA 01/2025
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and a minimum 5 years of experience at a SMS
management level or equivalent. To ensure that potential SMS members have
a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be the successful completion of
the Senior Management Pre-entry Program as endorsed by the National
School of Government. This is a Public Service specific training program which
will be applicable for appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS
must undertake a pre-entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as
part of the interview process based on the technical or generic requirements of
the post. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentations as part
of the interview. Extensive knowledge and understanding of relevant policies
and legislations, e.g. PFMA, PSA, PSR, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, GRAP,
LRA, BCEA, NT’s MCS, etc. Special requirements (skills needed): Financial
53
management; Strategic planning; Project management; Financial GRC;
Financial reporting, Auditing, etc.
DUTIES : Provide support and financial advisory services to the Head of the Department
and executive authority; Manage the budget of the Department effectively and
efficiently; Provide responses to parliamentary enquiries; Participate in
parliamentary engagements like Portfolio Committee, etc.; Facilitate AGSA
audits; Advice and support the management of the Department; Strategically
direct and control the finances of the Department; Maintains financial policies.
Provide strategic guidelines for the Department financial strategic business
plan; Control the execution of the financial strategic business plan; Provide
effective financial management to ensure the following: Development,
implementation and maintenance of transparent internal control systems;
Compliance with policies, plans, procedures, laws, regulations, contracts;
Safeguarding of assets; Accomplishment of established objectives and goals
for operations or programs; Exercise sound budgeting and budgetary control
practices; Submission of financial reports; Corrective actions and preventative
measures; Reliability and integrity of information. Strategically guide, manage
and coordinate all activities in the Chief Directorate towards ensuring the
effective and efficient functioning of the Chief Directorate. Ensure compliance
with key legislative and other regulatory requirements applicable to the Chief
Directorate. Ensure sound financial and supply chain management within the
Chief Directorate. Overall manage and develop the resources of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : STR Ramakarane at 066 487 4900
POST 13/91 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL INTERGOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT AND
CAPACITATION REF NO: 02 /2025
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and minimum of 5 years of experience at a Senior
Management level. To ensure that potential SMS members have a background
on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further requirement for
appointment at SMS level will be the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Program (Nyukela) as endorsed by the National School
of Government. This is a Public Service specific training program which will be
applicable for appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS. All the shortlisted candidates for SMS must
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as part of
the interview process based on the technical or generic requirements of the
post. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation as part of
the interview.
DUTIES : It will be expected from the suitable candidate to strategically plan, direct, co-
ordinate, manage and oversee the effective and efficient rendering of the
following support services, including overseeing the development and
successful implementation of related policies and implementation of strategies.
For the following services: e.g. Ensure the development of the Chief
Directorate 5-year Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan in line with the
priorities as set out in the MTDP and monitor the performance of the directorate
against its strategic objectives and the Provincial Programme of Action,
including implementing remedial steps where and when necessary, towards
improving the performance of the Municipalities and the Directorate. Oversee
the performance of the following directorates: Disaster Management,
Intergovernmental Relations, Municipal Finance and Municipal Monitoring and
Performance. Manage the drafting and implementation of the intervention
plans in Municipalities. Monitor municipal capacity building and municipal
support. Manage the allocated resources of the Chief Directorate. Manage
performance of the Chief Directorate. Manage sound employment relations.
Manage employee conditions of service in the Chief Directorate. Facilitate
coaching mentorship, training and development for service delivery efficacy in
the Chief Directorate. Establish, implement and maintain effective and efficient
54
communication and leadership oversight. Manage, maintain and safeguard
assets. Monitor the effective management of audit processes in the Chief
Directorate. Monitor planning and reporting of the Chief Directorate programs.
ENQUIRIES : SS Dhlamini at 066 055 4674
POST 13/92 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION, ICT AND AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
03 /2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and a minimum of 5 years of experience at a
Middle/Senior Managerial level. To ensure that potential SMS members have
a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be the successful completion of
the Senior Management Pre-entry Program as endorsed by the National
School of Government. This is a Public Service specific training program which
will be applicable for appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS
must undertake a pre-entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as
part of the interview process based on the technical or generic requirements of
the post. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation as part
of the interview. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation
as part of the interview.
DUTIES : To develop a departmental communication and Information Technology policy
and plan in line with national and provincial frameworks and to ensure the
successful implementation thereof in the department. To promote a conducive
environment to the positive image of the department, both inside and outside
the public services, by evaluating, sensitizing and rendering advice on matters
affecting the image of the Department and Free State Provincial Government.
To ensure that is managed effectively and efficiently in the department and to
promote e-government in enhancing delivery service. To manage Information
Technology, Corporate Communication and Auxiliary Services for the
Department. Promote integrated governance in the unit, through alignment of
activities relating to: Help desk, Presidential Hotline, National Provincial and
MEC Outreach programmes, meetings and National Publications. Managing
all resources of the Directorate. Duties to be aligned to the GITO functions as
per DPSA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at: 066 487 5032
POST 13/93 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT REF NO: COGTA 04 /2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and 5 years of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial
level. To ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes
and procedures linked to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at
SMS level will be the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry Program as endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a
Public Service specific training program which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no appointment shall be
finalized without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS must undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as part of the interview
process based on the technical or generic requirements of the post.
Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation as part of the
interview.
55
DUTIES : To support the Accounting Officer towards compliance with the provisions of
the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and executing delegated
responsibilities entrusted to the post of Municipal Financial Support as per
financial delegations. To support municipalities to table credible Annual
Financial Statements for auditing as contemplated in section 188 of the
Constitution. Advising and supporting Municipalities towards compliance with
Legislation and Regulations as determined by the Act in respect of their
finances. Advising and supporting Municipalities towards compliance with
requirements for enabling Internal Control environment. Monitor and advice
Municipalities in the implementation of the Municipal Property Rates Act, 2004.
Provide support and advice to Municipalities in the compilation of an Annual
Draft Rates Policy, dealing with all comments and representations on the
Annual Draft Rates Policy before Council approves for implementation and
promulgation of a Rates Policy By-laws. Advising Municipalities with rating
aspects, such as impermissible rates, phasing in of rates exemptions,
reductions and rebates, and monitoring MPRA compliance with regard to the
promulgation of resolutions to levy rates. Further monitors compliance with
MPRA property rates ratios in respect of “cent amount in a rand” levied and
annual rates increase. Render secretarial and administrative support to
Valuation Appeal Boards in the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SS Dhlamini at 066 055 4674
POST 13/94 : OFFICE MANAGER IN THE OFFICE OF THE HOD REF NO: COGTA 05
/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA and a minimum of 5 years of experience at a
Middle/Senior Managerial level. To ensure that potential SMS members have
a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be the successful completion of
the Senior Management Pre-entry Program as endorsed by the National
School of Government. This is a Public Service specific training program which
will be applicable for appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS
must undertake a pre-entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as
part of the interview process based on the technical or generic requirements of
the post. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentations as part
of the interview.
DUTIES : Manage Engagements of the Head of Department. Ensure that the Personal
Assistant compiles realistic programmes of appointments and journeys for the
Head of Department. Liaise with and/or sensitize the Head of Department
regarding priority appointments. Render administrative support services. Set
up and maintain systems in the Office of the Head of Department that will
contribute towards improving efficiency in the office. Ensure, oversee and
advise on the effective flow of information and documents to and from the
Office of the Head of Department. Oversee the safekeeping of all
documentation in the Office of the Head of Department. Oversee responses
drafted by the Personal Assistant on enquiries received from internal and
external stakeholders. Draft responses with regard to more complex issues for
internal and external stakeholders. Prioritize matters to be attended to by the
Head of Department. Co-ordinate and compile reports of a transverse nature
for the HOD and advise/sensitize the Head of Department on reports to be
submitted (for example to Provincial Departments, Municipalities, Components
etc.). Follow-up on reports to be submitted (for example by Provincial
Departments, Municipalities, Components, etc.) to the Office of the Head of
Department. Compile presentations for the Head of Department. Execute
research, analyze information and compile complex documents for the Head
of Department. Research and compile comprehensive documents for the Head
of Department with regard to issues forthcoming from meetings such as
FOHOD, MINMEC etc. Compile EXCO Memoranda and PROPAC
56
memoranda. Scrutinize complex submissions/reports and make notes and/or
recommendations for the Head of Department with regard to the documents.
Provide support to the Head of Department with regard to meetings. Scrutinize
documents to determine actions/information/documents required for the
meeting. Collect and compile information for the Head of Department with
regard to issues that need to be discussed at meetings. Record
minutes/decisions and communicate to relevant role-players, follow-up on
progress made, prepare briefing notes as well as other documentation to
adequately prepare the Head of Department. Arrange for the placements of
items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Head of Department and
ensure circulation thereof. Co-ordinate high level meetings including
overseeing the logistics, transport arrangements and take charge of invitations
and RSVP functions etc. Manage the budget of the Office of the Head of
Department. Determine and collate information with regard to the budget needs
of the Office of the Head of Department. Keep record of expenditure
commitments, monitor expenditures and alert the Head of Department with
regard to possible over-and under spending. Identify the need to move funds
between items and compile submissions for this purpose. Manage the human
resource aspects related to the staff in the Office of the Head of Department
including the leave register, telephone accounts etc. Remain up to date with
regard to the applicable prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to
his/her work terrain to ensure effective and efficient support to the Head of
Department. Keep abreast with the relevant Public Service and Departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly. remain abreast with the procedures and processes that
apply in the Office of the Head of Department.
ENQUIRIES : STR Ramakarane at 066 487 4900
POST 13/95 : DIRECTOR: BUDGET AND FINANCE REF NO: COGTA 06 /2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and 5 years of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial
level. To ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes
and procedures linked to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at
SMS level will be the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry Program as endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a
Public Service specific training program which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no appointment shall be
finalized without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS must undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as part of the interview
process based on the technical or generic requirements of the post.
Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation as part of the
interview.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction, manage and administer the Directorate. Provide a
budget preparation and control services to the Department. Provide budget
management systems, policies, internal controls, reports and oversight for the
Department in accordance with Government Regulatory Framework. Assist
and represent the Chief Financial Officer with regard to budget management
and all other related financial matters. To manage, control and compile the
budget and cash flow of the Department together with the compilation of
compliance reports in terms of various Acts. To conduct special investigation
towards preventing financial fraud within the Department. To develop and
ensure the successful implementation of a Departmental Strategy/ Policy on
finances of the Department, including reporting formats, accounting practices,
etc. To ensure that the finances of projects in the Department are managed
effectively. To manage accountancy services in the Department. To plan, co-
ordinate and manage financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Molikoe at 082 668 6610
57
POST 13/96 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: COGTA 07 /2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and 5 years of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial
level. To ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes
and procedures linked to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at
SMS level will be the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry Program as endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a
Public Service specific training program which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no appointment shall be
finalized without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS must undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as part of the interview
process based on the technical or generic requirements of the post.
Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentation as part of the
interview.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the demand and acquisition processes. Develop,
manage and maintain logistical information and supply chain management of
the fund. Provide effective movable assets and liability management services.
Manage all resources of the Directorate. The successful candidate will be
responsible for the following duties: Provide support service to the Chief
Financial Officer and other Senior Managers in the execution of their functions
in terms of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and Treasury
Regulations. Provide strategic direction with regard to Supply Chain
Management functions to the Directorate and the department. Manage Assets,
Logistics, Contract Management as well as Acquisition sub-directorates.
Manage the Department’s LOGIS System, and database of all services to the
department. Provide assistance with the determination of bid evaluation criteria
and compilation of tender documents, evaluation of bids and recommendation
to the Bid Committees. Liaise with relevant role players in the financial
environment regarding transversal matters. Manage and negotiate contracts
for and on behalf of the organization. Manage and organize resources to
achieve the strategic objectives of the organization and directorate. Interpret,
understand and implement Supply Chain Management and asset management
as contained in relevant legislation, regulations and GRAP standards. Develop
and implement relevant policies and procedures with respect to Supply Chain
and Asset Management. Management of procurement risk arising from
contracts and asset disposals. Ensure the necessary organizational capacity
is created and managed for delivery on core operational requirements. Manage
the performance of the unit to ensure quality service delivery and achievement
of key strategic objectives. Ensure effective financial and human resources
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Molikoe at 082 668 6610
POST 13/97 : DIRECTOR: IDP & LED REF NO: COGTA 08/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 in Economics, Development
Studies, or equivalent qualification (postgraduate degree will receive
preference). 5 years of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level.
Recommendations: Proven expertise in integrated development planning, local
economic development, and stakeholder engagement. Strong analytical,
leadership, and communication skills. Knowledge of legislation and
frameworks governing cooperative governance and economic development.
DUTIES : Development of an Integrated Development Planning Framework for
Municipalities aligned to the Free State and Development Growth Strategy and
58
Provincial Spatial Framework. Oversee the implementation of the LED Policy
Framework within the Municipalities. Manage the Economic Research,
Statistical Modelling and analysis for IDP’s and LED. Develop and Implement
Support Programmes on IDP’s and LED. Manage the financial resources of the
Directorate. Lead and coordinate integrated development planning processes
within the Free State province. Develop, implement, and monitor effective local
economic development strategies to stimulate sustainable growth and job
creation. Provide strategic support and guidance to municipalities to ensure
alignment with provincial development objectives. Facilitate partnerships
between government, private sector, and civil society for developmental
programs. Ensure compliance with legislation, policies, and frameworks
relating to IDP and LED.
ENQUIRIES : S. Dhlamini at 066 0554674
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/98 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: COGTA
09/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque, car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 3-Year Degree or equivalent qualification and practical
demonstration of knowledge and skills as well as a valid code 8. Additional
qualifications in strategic planning and/or performance management and
monitoring will be added advantage. Five (5) years’ experience within the
monitoring, reporting and evaluation environment. Among others, the
application must possess communication, organizing, analytical, problem
solving, conflict management and must be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop, maintain and facilitate the successful implementation of the
Department’s Monitoring and Evaluation Policy and/or Implementation
Strategy (in line with national and/or provincial frameworks). Develop the
Department’s (quarterly) Monitoring and Evaluation Reporting Template in line
with the Department’s Annual Performance Plan as well as the Annual Report
Framework of the Department. Monitor and report on the performance of the
Department in relation to the following: Departmental Annual Performance
Plan. Provincial Programme of Action (SOPA and/or MEC Budget Injunctions).
The above includes the following: Develop and advice managers and senior
managers on the template to be used for the capturing of monthly, quarterly
and annual performance information (progress). Keep and maintain source
documents towards validating quarterly and annual performance information.
Consolidate and evaluate quarterly non-financial performance information and
advice supervisors and managers on matters related thereto towards ensuring
that all required progress is accurate and complete. Collect and collate signed-
off quarterly performance information (progress) and capture such on the
electronic QPR System once quality assured by the Deputy Director Strategic
Management. Assist and advise managers on the drafting of technical
performance indicators, especially in relation to source documents pertaining
to the performance indicator. Analyze the quarterly and annual performance of
the Department, identify challenges related to the non-achievement of
performance targets and render advice thereon. Represent the Department in
national and/or provincial meetings on matters related to monitoring and
evaluation. Collect and collate signed-off inputs from all relevant managers
towards drafting the Annual Report of the Department in line with the
requirements of National and Provincial Treasury. This includes the preparation
of the Department’s Annual Performance Report for inclusion in the Annual
Report.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/99 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR ICT (GITO) REF NO: COGTA 10/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
59
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque, car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma (NQF:6/7) in Information Technology.
Three to five (3- 5) years Assistant Director or equivalent Level experience in
a relevant IT Support Field. A valid driver’s license. Recommendations:
Knowledge of broad ICT procedures and ICT security practices are
recommended. Skills & Knowledge: Knowledge of IT Technical Support, IT
Networks and the DPSA CGICT Framework, training, administration, career,
management, strategic planning, report procedures and research. Technical
Expertise, Project Management, Functional Ability, Quick Thinking, Diagnostic
Action Research, Strategic and Conceptual, Orientation, Innovation Thinking,
Problem Solving, Communication, Team Player, Coaching and Developing
People, Self-driven, Interpersonal. Understanding, Departmental
Organizational Knowledge, Networking and Influencing skills.
DUTIES : Align the departments information management system and information
technology (as enabler) strategy with the strategic direction, management
plans and the business processes of the department, with due consideration
of its strategic plan: Establish an information plan, information technology plan
and operational plans to give effect to the strategic direction and management
plans to give effect to the strategic direction and management plans of the
department to Manage IT Governance. Develop departmental supporting
information management and information technology enabler policies and
strategies, regulations, standards, norms, guidelines, best practices and
procedures, derived from the national information management and
information technology policy and strategy, standards and norms developed by
the GITO Council and DPSA, but focused on the specific requirements of the
department: Facilitate the implementation of an adherence to the policies and
strategies as contained in the different plans, policies etc. Manage and develop
departmental ICT strategies and policies. Represent the relevant department
at the GITO Council: Attend GITO Council: meetings. Report on issues from
the GITO Council meetings. Promote effective management of information and
information technology as enabler as strategic resources: Apply an enterprise
wide approach to the use of information management, (Information technology
systems and infrastructure included) in support the business units and
business processes, bridging diverse systems to establish a client-focused
service strategy, eliminating unnecessary duplication, increase overall
coordination and control, and rapidly introduce new systems and technology to
improve service delivery. Development information and technology system
infrastructure architecture and conduct investigations into the maintenance of
existing technologies, availability, needs and demand of new technologies.
Rationalize unnecessary duplication and redundancy of information and
technologies in the department. Where feasible, promote common solutions for
common requirements across the department. Promote the Utilization of
technology as a key enabler for the future in delivering information and services
and promote its use in the reengineering/transformation of government service
delivery. Manage effectiveness maintenance of hardware, software and
licensing. Create and enabling environment for other managers to perform their
functions more effectively and efficiently: Close communication as part of the
top management team of the department with the top echelon of the
department to promote the utilization of information. Raising the level of
awareness of top management to the potential of the delivery of information
services through enabling technologies. Change the culture of the department
to embrace an enterprise-wide information 84 management technology
approach. This requires the visible, strong and continuous support of senior
managers. Take a leadership role in knowledge management. Manage IT
backup process. Manage the SITA relationship: This entails control of the
Business Agreement (BA) and Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) with SITA
and / or other suppliers of information management and information technology
goods and services: Manage the standardization of equipment software
according to policy. Utilization of security mechanisms and ensure compliance
to the relevant regulatory framework: Manage IT Risk Register. Manager
network integrity (WAN System in relation to SLAs / MOUs). Responsible for
ensuring development and training of the members in the department in
relevant information technology matters. Manage the Departmental IT unit and
staff. Management of Financial Resources and Assets. Provide 3rd line IT
60
support to the department. Responsible for AG Audit Outcomes, Manage IT
infrastructure and IT security.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/100 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: COGTA 11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in Labour Law/ Labour Relations or Law
or equivalent qualification. 3 – 5 years’ experience as Assistant Director or
equivalent level in Labour Relations, Law, or Labour Law. Recommendations:
Relevant experience in conducting investigations, handling of grievances,
conciliation and arbitration, as presiding officer as well as public service
experiences. The successful candidate must have knowledge and good
understanding of Labour Act, Public Service Act 1994, Public Service
Regulations 2016. Employment Equity Act 1998. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act 1997, Individual Grievances Regulations 2016, Treasury
Regulations, PFMA. The candidate will be required to display a high level of
diplomacy. Expected to work long hours and travelling. Excellent verbal, liaison
and writing skills.
DUTIES : Direct and manage the implementation of sound labour and service relation
system for dealing with misconduct and incapacity in the Department. Direct
and manage the implementation of sound labour and service relations system
dealing with grievances of employees in the Department. Manage the
expenditure plan of the sub-directorate in relation to the Directorate’s budget
and strategic business plan. Develop labour relation policies. Manage the
investigation of misconduct and grievance cases to advise appropriately
thereon. Advise management on all labour relations matters to minimize unfair
labour practices. Represent the department in bilateral discussions with
organized labour unions. Perform and manage administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/101 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COOMUNICATION REF NO: 12/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and
which may include a 13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in Labour Law/ Labour Relations or Law
or equivalent qualification. 3 – 5 years’ experience as Assistant Director or
equivalent level in Communication or related field. Recommendations: Good
communication and writing skills, organizational management, events
management. Appropriate public service experience in a communication,
public relations or media environment, which include facilitating client and
stakeholder collaboration; communication campaign development; people
management; external communication; internal communication; and risk and
reputation management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB)
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the Communication sub-directorate of Communication. Assist in
developing Communication Guidelines to be utilized within the department.
Coordinate and facilitate all external events in the department such as Imbizo
outreach programmes, outside broadcasts, national commemorative days, etc.
Provide advice and guidance to management on communication related
matters. Provide supervisory function and support to staff and the unit.
Facilitating stakeholder engagement and collaboration. Develop and
implement appropriate internal and external communication plans aligned with
the Provincial Communication Strategy, including monitoring and evaluation of
these campaigns. Responsible for risk identification, media liaison, and
reputation management. Align strategic messaging across all communication
channels, including obtaining the necessary health data and information
61
timeously to develop communication strategies, plans, and campaigns. People
management, including task allocation and performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/102 : CANDIDATE ENGINEERS REF NO: COGTA 13 /2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R795 924 per annum (OSD), all-inclusive package. The remuneration package
consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms
of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and which may include a
13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : No previous experience required. Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus (NQF
Level 7) in Engineering or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Current
registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as Candidate
Engineer. A valid driver’s license. Computer literacy. National Building
Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act of
1993 and Regulations. Health Act and Regulations. Engineering Profession Act
of 2000.
DUTIES : To perform all aspects of engineering activities that result in progress in
technology and engineering applications under supervision as prescribed by
ECSA at the level of candidate towards registration as an engineer. Assist with
monitoring of wastewater treatment plan, Civil related matters. Assist in
monitoring civil engineering projects. Maintenance of health facilities. Strategic
Briefing Documentation. Infrastructure Plans. Strategies, policies and
procedures. Research/literature studies and interaction with relevant
professional development boards/councils. Effective and efficient resources
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Toona at 066 487 4868
POST 13/103 : PROFESSIONAL TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER PRODUCTION
GRADE A REF NO: COGTA 14/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R795 924 per annum (OSD), all-inclusive package. The remuneration package
consists of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms
of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and which may include a
13th cheque and car allowance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant qualification. Three
years’ post qualification Town and Regional Planning experience required.
Valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with SACPLAN as a professional
Town and Regional Planner on appointment. Recommendations: Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management, Town and Regional
Principles and methodologies. Research and development. Computer-aided
applications. Town and Regional knowledge of legal compliance, Creating high
performance culture, technical consulting, Professional judgment.
DUTIES : Provide technical assistance to professional teams on all aspects regarding
town and regional planning projects. Adhere to legal requirements in town and
regional planning. Co-ordinate the implementation of development in
compliance with applicable legislation and town and regional planning
standards and guidelines. Provide support in the compilation and adoption of
technical and planning standards, norms and guidelines. Implement planning
legislation. Guidelines, policies and regulations. Co-ordinate site clearance
processes in terms of Project Execution plans. Support the planning and
design of sustainable human settlement. Provide assistance with the
compilation of Land Use Scheme. The successful candidate will perform the
following duties: Support Town Planning process in accordance with South
African Policies, Acts, Regulations, and Industry Guidelines following MISA and
Municipal Norms and Practices. Support municipalities to compile Spatial
Development Framework (SDF) as part of IDP processes. Support
municipalities to compile guidelines and evaluation of land use management
schemes (LUMS). Support municipalities in implementation and management
of Town Planning Schemes in compliance with legislative requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MS Selogilwe at 066 487 4895
62
POST 13/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: COGTA 15 /2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF-6, in Communication or Media, Journalism, Public Relations or Marketing
studies and 3-years’ experience in related field. Recommendations: Good
communication and writing skills, organizational management, events
management. Appropriate public service experience in a communication,
public relations or media environment, which include facilitating client and
stakeholder collaboration; communication campaign development; people
management; external communication; internal communication; and risk and
reputation management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB)
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop, monitor and maintain communications and special program
strategies and policies. Co-ordinate all corporate communication activities that
include both external and internal communication, special programs, marketing
and corporate identity management responsibilities. Produce material for
Departmental online media, in order to keep employees informed of current
affairs. Coordinate and manage Departmental events in order to promote the
image of the Department and the Executing Authority. Develop communication
strategies and policies in line with the communication framework. Manage
human resources and the assets of the Sub-directorate to ensure the smooth
running of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DATA AND INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGER REF
NO: COGTA 16 /2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : 3 Year tertiary qualifications in relevant area and/or extensive administrative
experience in the IT-related field. Driver’s license. 5 years applicable
experience. Recommendations: Broad ICT procedures and practices. ICT
Security practices. Information Management practices. Budgeting procedures
and practices. Broad administrative knowledge. Personnel Evaluation
procedures. Human resource management practices. Analytical Skills; Writing
Skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage operational level Data and Information Management in the
Department. Manage and control ICT Infrastructure management in the
department. To manage and control ICT Security management in the
department. Provide assistance to DITC. General staff supervision and
management of the resources of the Department by means of planning,
coordination, monitoring and improvement of work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/106 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT SERVICE CENTRE REF NO: COGTA 17 /2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : 3 Year tertiary qualifications in relevant areas and/or extensive administrative
experience in the IT related field. Driver’s license. 5 years applicable
experience. Recommendations: Broad ICT procedures and practices. ICT
Security practices. Information Management practices. Budgeting procedures
and practices. Broad administrative knowledge. Personnel Evaluation
procedures. Human resource management practices. Analytical Skills; Writing
Skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To manage both first- and second-line support to all users within the
department. To support the development, management and control of ICT
Systems including the departmental website. To manage the planning,
implementation and maintenance of both external and internal information
technology projects e.g. the roll-out of IT within the respective district offices.
To plan, coordinate and manage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. procedures. Sage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. To develop and ensure the successful implementation of
ICT procurement policies and strategies. To ensure the rendering of an
effective and efficient secretariat and advisory service to the Departmental IT
63
Committee in line with procurement and asset management procedures. SITA
liaison and service level management (agreements). Keep and maintain a
register of all IT equipments in the Department, including the disposal thereof
in terms of Treasury regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 0664875032
POST 13/107 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: COGTA 18/ 2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Recommendations: A minimum of applicable
experience in administration of which one year supervisory/ team leader.
Experience in rendering of secretarial or administrative services.
Understanding of the Public Services, more specifically pertaining to
Traditional Affairs is recommended. Computer literacy, Planning and
organizing skills, Communication skills (verbal and written), Customer service;
Creative thinking Customer Service Orientation; Problem solving skills,
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Manage and support the administrators in dealing with the administrative
matters of the Specialized Support, Advice and Intervention rendered in the
various municipalities. Will be responsible for all the logistical services such as
travellings, meeting arrangements, laisse with all the stakeholders in the
various municipalities and assist the department to arrange the public
participations in the identified areas that need the departmental interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SS Dhlamini at 066 055 4674
POST 13/108 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: COGTA 19/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein, Institutional Support
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Recommendations: In-depth knowledge and
experience in customary law as well as traditional practices such as initiations.
DUTIES : Facilitate establishment and recognition of Traditional healers Institutions,
Provincial Interfaith Committees and Cultural Organizations at provincial,
district and local level. Render advice on and promote cultural practices for
local traditional communities. Provide capacity and development of Traditional
Healers Institutions, African Traditional Churches and Cultural Organizations.
Promotes partnerships with sector departments and related stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PA Moloi at 066 4874864
POST 13/109 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Namahali Tribal Council Ref No: COGTA 20/2025
Bolata Tribal Council Ref No: COGTA 21/2025
Mabolela Tribal Council Ref No: COGTA 22/2025
Matsieng Tribal Council Ref No: COGTA 23/2025
Dinkoeng Tribal Council Ref No: COGTA 24/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Recommendations: A minimum of 3 years’ experience
in administration of which one year supervisory/ team leader. Experience in
rendering of secretarial or administrative services. Understanding of the Public
Services more specifically pertaining to the Traditional Affairs is recommended.
DUTIES : Manage office facilities and risk services in the unit. unit; Ensure effective and
efficient financial management; Manage the human resources of the office. To
render effective and efficient administration Services and support to the
Traditional Council, provide supervisory functions to the traditional council
personnel. Handle office administration, which include to render a registry
service towards ensuring the safekeeping of all the officials records, complaints
received from community members and/or official documents. Screen, transfer
and handle all telephonic calls as well as other enquiries (internal and external
clients). Manage office supplies. Prepare and/or type correspondence. Receive
and/or refer visitors. Handle various administrative matters, which include the
following: Open and register civil cases. Keep and maintain a register of
livestock information. Collect monies (for the purchasing of wood, court fines,
site fees, etc.) and issue receipts. Arrange auctions. Ensure that initiation
processes comply with the law. Accompany security guards to incidents of
reported crimes (e.g. theft etc.) and submit a report thereon to the Morena for
64
further attention. Administer the budget of the Traditional Council and arrange
the payment of financial and related claims. Render effective secretariat and
administrative support services to meetings arranged by and/or for Traditional
Council, which include to prepare agendas and related documents and
distribute to all stakeholders. Take basic minutes of meetings and distribute
such to all stakeholders. Prepare and handle all logistical arrangements for
meetings, register deaths and the communication thereof to the municipality
for the making of funeral arrangements. Communicate deaths to the Headman
towards ensuring that the Traditional Council is properly represented at
funerals. Hire official property such as tractors, community halls, etc. to the
community. Confirm the use of the library. Ensure, in liaison with community
members, government departments and NGO’s. The successful
implementation of community projects (e.g. with regard to water, feeding,
agriculture/crops, HIV and AIDS, home-based care and childcare forums,
projects involving the elderly, etc.). This includes the following: Ensure that
information pertaining to community projects are widely spread and distributed
in the community. Arrange information / training sessions in liaison with
representatives from the responsible lead department. Assist with the
implementation of community projects such as the project dealing with the
provision of computer access to the youth. Assist and/or support the community
on various matters related to government affairs such as the completion of
official forms, the payment of social grants, etc. and handle all community
enquiries on government matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PA Moloi at 066 4874864
POST 13/110 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: HOUSE
OF TRADITIONAL LEADERS REF NO: COGTA 25/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Secretarial
qualification. Experience in a secretarial or administrative-related environment.
Computer literacy. Knowledge of the public service and/or MS Office.
Recommendations: Ability to adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft
basic, correspondence, Plan, Organize, Communicate. Have good
interpersonal relations, Work under pressure, Work in a team, Judge
circumstances objective, produce accurate work, Be professional. Integrity,
Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-control, self-motivated and
professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager. To render
administrative support services. To provide support to the Director regarding
meetings. To support the Director with the administration of the directorate’s
budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MP Mokoena at 082 729 6334
POST 13/111 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO:
COGTA 26/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Secretarial
qualification. Experience in a secretarial or administrative-related environment.
Computer literacy. Knowledge of the public service and/or MS Office.
Recommendations: Ability to adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft
basic, correspondence, Plan, Organize, Communicate. Have good
interpersonal relations, Work under pressure, Work in a team, Judge
circumstances objective. Produce accurate work, Be professional. Integrity,
Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-control, self-motivated and
professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Financial
Officer. To render administrative support services. To provide support to the
Chef Financial Officer regarding meetings. To support the Chief Financial
Officer with the administration of the chief directorate’s budget.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Molikoe at 083 762 7455
65
POST 13/112 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPECIALISED
SUPPORT, ADVICE AND INTERVENTION UNIT REF NO: COGTA 27/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Experience in a
secretarial or administrative-related environment. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of the public service and/or MS Office. Recommendations: Ability
to adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft basic, correspondence,
Plan, Organize, Communicate, have good interpersonal relations, Work under
pressure, Work in a team, Judge circumstances objective. Produce accurate
work, Be professional. Integrity, Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-
control, self-motivated and professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Deputy Director
General. To render administrative support services. To provide support to the
Deputy Director General regarding meetings. To support the Deputy Director
General with the administration of the directorate’s budget.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SS Dhlamini at 066 055 4674
POST 13/113 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
DIRECTORATE REF NO: COGTA 28/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Experience in a
secretarial or administrative-related environment. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of the public service and/or MS Office. Recommendations: Ability
to adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft basic, correspondence,
Plan, Organize, Communicate. Have good interpersonal relations, Work under
pressure, Work in a team, Judge circumstances objective. Produce accurate
work, Be professional. Integrity, Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-
control, self-motivated and professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager. To render
administrative support services. To provide support to the Director regarding
meetings. To support the Director with the administration of the directorate’s
budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PA Moloi at 066 487 4969
POST 13/114 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES AND
MUNICIPAL POLICY ADVICE REF NO: COGTA 29/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Experience in a
secretarial or administrative-related environment. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of public service and/or MS Office. Recommendations: Ability to
adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft basic, correspondence, Plan,
Organize, Communicate. Have good interpersonal relations, Work under
pressure, Work in a team, Judge circumstances objective. Produce accurate
work, Be professional. Integrity, Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-
control, self-motivated and professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. To render
administrative support services. To provide support to the Director regarding
meetings. To support the Director with the administration of the chief
directorate’s budget.
ENQUIRIES : Adv M Mantso at 066 487 5063
POST 13/115 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE
SERVICES DIRECTORATE REF NO: COGTA 30/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Experience in a
secretarial or administrative-related environment. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of the public service and/or MS Office. Recommendations: Ability
to adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft basic, correspondence,
Plan, Organize, Communicate. Have good interpersonal relations, Work under
66
pressure, Work in a team, Judge circumstances objective. Produce accurate
work, Be professional. Integrity, Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-
control, self-motivated and professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director. To
render administrative support services. To provide support to the Chief Director
regarding meetings. To support the Chief Director with the administration of the
chief directorate’s budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/116 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: COGTA 31/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with proven ability to apply knowledge and skills. Experience in a
secretarial or administrative-related environment. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of public service and/or MS Office. Recommendations: Ability to
adapt to a changing environment. Ability to draft basic, correspondence, Plan,
Organize, Communicate. Have good interpersonal relations, Work under
pressure, Work in a team, Judge circumstances objective. Produce accurate
work, Be professional. Integrity, Self-confidence, sense of responsibility, self-
control, self-motivated and professional.
DUTIES : To provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. To render
administrative support services. To provide support to the Director regarding
meetings. To support the Chief Director with the administration of the
directorate’s budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LS Mokoena at 066 487 5032
POST 13/117 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERKS REF NO: COGTA 32/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), basic salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Recommendations: Knowledge and
understanding of general administration and office administration. Skills in the
following: Proven computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook);
Written and verbal communication skills; Planning and organizing skills;
Interpersonal relations; Basic analytical skills; Numeric skills; Critical thinking.
DUTIES : To administer requisitions for Procurement, Ledger Management, perform
order administration and document distribution, Perform office administration
and end-user service delivery, Asset Management and control accountability.
Maintains the Departmental Asset Register on Logis. Capture balance
adjustments on BACP for assets. Movement of assets from one asset list to
another on selection BAMV. Co-ordinating stock tacking/ asset verification.
Assist with asset identification during audit, sport checks and so forth.
Maintains the relevant filing systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Nkhetse at 066 253 2554
POST 13/118 : DRIVER REF NO: COGTA 33/2025
SALARY : R163 680 annum (Level 03), basic salary
CENTRE : Traditional Affairs QwaQwa
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent and possession of a valid driver’s license.
Recommendations: Knowledge of the area in which the functions will be
performed. Knowledge of the procedures to operate motor vehicles e.g.
procedures to obtain authorities, complete the logbooks and consumable e.g.
petrol, maintenance and inspection of such motor vehicles, etc.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient driver service for Traditional Affairs which
includes collection, delivery and distribution of documents. Transportation of
authorized officials, assets and or delivers submissions, fetching the mail from
the post offices to their different destinations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PA Moloi at 066 487 4969
POST 13/119 : DRIVER REF NO: COGTA 34/2025
SALARY : R163 680 annum (Level 03), basic salary
CENTRE : Traditional Affairs QwaQwa
67
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent experience. and possession of a valid driver’s license.
Recommendations: Knowledge of the area in which the functions will be
performed. Knowledge of the procedures to operate motor vehicles e.g.
procedures to obtain authorities, complete the logbooks and consumable e.g.
petrol, maintenance and inspection of such motor vehicles, etc.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient driver service for Traditional Affairs which
includes collection, delivery and distribution of documents. Transportation of
authorized officials, assets and or delivers submissions, fetching the mail from
the post offices to their different destinations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PA Moloi at 066 487 4969
POST 13/120 : CLEANER REF NO: COGTA 35/2025
SALARY : R138 486 annum (Level 02), basic salary
CENTRE : Free State House of Traditional Leaders
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Ability to read and write.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing
and polishing, deep cleaning of toilets, waste management and maintenance
of general neatness and hygiene in the area. Ensure that cleaning equipment
is clean after usage and securely stored. Optimal support to supervisor and
colleagues. Effectively use of cleaning agents as well as elementary stock
control. Effective utilization of cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena at 082 729 6334
POST 13/121 : CLEANER REF NO: COGTA 36/2025
SALARY : R138 486 annum (Level 02), basic salary
CENTRE : Bolata Tribal Council
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Ability to read and write.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing
and polishing, deep cleaning of toilets, waste management and maintenance
of general neatness and hygiene in the area. Ensure that cleaning equipment
is clean after usage and securely stored. Optimal support to supervisor and
colleagues. Effectively use of cleaning agents as well as elementary stock
control. Effective utilization of cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PA Moloi at 066 487 4969
POST 13/122 : CLEANER REF NO: COGTA 37/2025
SALARY : R138 486 annum (Level 02), basic salary
CENTRE : Mabolela Tribal Council
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Ability to read and write.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing
and polishing, deep cleaning of toilets, waste management and maintenance
of general neatness and hygiene in the area. Ensure that cleaning equipment
is clean after usage and securely stored. Optimal support to supervisor and
colleagues. Effectively use of cleaning agents as well as elementary stock
control. Effective utilization of cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PA Moloi at 066 487 4969
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 02 May 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form. “Applicants are advised that
until 31 December 2020 the current application for employment (Z83) form will
be applicable, however from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment
(Z83) form will be effective. Should an individual wish to apply for a post on or
after 1 January 2021, he/she will be required to submit the new application for
employment form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.
From 1 January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect
application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.” The fully completed
and signed form Z83 should be accompanied by a recently updated,
comprehensive CV and application must submit copies of qualifications,
identity document and drivers licence (where appropriate) and any other
relevant documents. Such copies need to be certified when applying for a post.
The communication from the HR of the department regarding the requirements
for certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
68
shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or the day of the interview following communication from HR.as well as
recently certified copies of all qualification(s), including a Senior certificate and
ID-document [Driver’s license where applicable]. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders must attach a copy of their
Permanent Residence Permits to their applications. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed
on a probation period of 12 months. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/123 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY - ADVANCED/CHILD PSYCHIATRIC
NURSING SCIENCE -PNB1-2 REF NO: HP/01/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R538 99 - R723 954 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Free State Psychiatric Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Basic qualification accredited with the SANC in terms of Government
Notice 425 (i.e. Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse plus post-basic
course of Advanced /Child Psychiatric with a duration of at least 1-year
qualification. Current registration with the SANC (2025/2026). Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of the legal framework appropriate for nursing practice. Good
Communication Skills and interpersonal relationship. Knowledge of Mental
Health act, procedures and legislation. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide more complex and advanced comprehensive nursing treatment and
care to patients in specialty unit a cost effective, efficient and equitable manner.
Give direction and supervision for the implementation of the Nursing plan
(clinical practice / quality patient care) as a shift leader. Implement standards,
practices, criteria and indicators for quality Nursing (quality of practice).
Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations
relevant to Nursing and health care. Maintain a constructive working
relationship with Nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively. Ensure that a holistic nursing care
services is delivered to all patients in a cost effective, efficient and equitable
manner by the unit. Ensure compliance to professional and ethical practice.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices.
ENQUIRIES : Me. ME Semelo Tel No: (051) 407 9207
APPLICATIONS : https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/124 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY (MIDWIFERY)- PHC) (PNB1 – PNB2)
REF NO: H/P/02/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
69
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District (OMBU)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse.
Current registration with SANC (2025/2026). Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration with SANC
as a Professional Nurse. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1 year- post-basic nursing qualification in Advanced Midwifery, with a
duration of a least 1 year, accredited with SANC as Professional Nurse of the
period referred to above. A valid driver's license will be added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: Good communication; Interpersonal relations; Ability to
work under pressure; Computer literacy. Demonstrate an understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote quality
of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards
as determined by the relevant health facility. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report
writing when required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure
good nursing care. Work effectively, co-operatively, amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and
organise own work and support personnel to ensure proper nursing care.
Display a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and
care including awareness and willingness to respond to patient’s needs,
requirements and expectations (Batho Pele).
ENQUIRIES : Me. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/125 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY - PHC) (PNB1 – PNB2) (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
plus 13th cheque, housing allowance, medical aid (optional), employee must
meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District – Kgotsong - Welkom Ref No: H/P/03/2025
Lejweleputswa District – Tshepong - Welkom Ref No: H/P/04/2025
Lejweleputswa District – Bophelong - Welkom Ref No: H/P/05/2025
Lejweleputswa District – Bophelong - Allanridge Ref No: H/P/06/2025
Lejweleputswa District – Dealsville (Dealsville) Ref No: H/P/07/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma\Degree in Nursing or equivalent that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with
SANC 2025/2026. A minimum of 4 years appropriate\recognizable experience
in nursing after registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Grade 2: A
minimum of 14 years appropriate\recognizable experience in Nursing after
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate\recognizable experience after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification Health assessment treatment and care
(Primary Health Care). Knowledge and Skills: Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Health and Safety Act, Health Act, Nursing Act Planning
and Organizing skills, Effective Communication skills Co-ordination skills,
Collaboration skills, Computer Literacy Skills, Time Management Skills,
Problem Solving skills, Report writing skills, Facilitation Skills.
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive community health care. Provide primary
preventative health care. Provide curative health care services. Referral to
health support services. (rehabilitation, oral health etc. Doctors etc.Specialist).
Evaluate and follow-up patients during clinic visits. Initiate treatment,
implementation of programmes and evaluations of patients' clinical conditions.
Promoting scientific quality nursing care. Individual consultation session.
Identify community needs. Initiate minor ailment treatment. Initiate community
participation. Coordinate between hospital and community. Maintaining
professional secrecy and preventing medico- legal risks. Attend and participate
in doctors' visit. Arrange admission and outpatient appointments. Function as
a member of the therapeutic team. Continuous evaluation of nursing care and
70
nursing services. Assessment of personal services delivery towards patients.
Provision of administration services: Plan and organize daily tasks in clinics in
co-operation with Clinical Manager. Complete and control Health Information
data of all patients and activities as per policy. Ordering and control of
stationary, medical stock, consumables as per delegation in absence of
personnel responsible for different services. Ensure the safekeeping of stock
assets. Ordering and control of medication as necessary as per delegations in
absence of Pharmacist Assistant. Control of medicine prescribed to patients as
per EDL. Up to date knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and
departmental policies. Involvement with community meetings and committees
in co-operation with Operational Manager. Identify needs for financial planning
and indirect control of expenditure. Provision of education services; Clinical
teaching, training and continuous evaluation of sub-category nursing personnel
and support services in the clinic Manger. Teaching patients on one-to one
basis. Personnel development, ie. Assessing in-service training, and
implementing of training programme in co-operation with clinical Manager.
Usage of equipment and machinery: Usage of basic medical equipment.
Research responsibility, to assist in regional and departmental projects. Direct
and indirect involvement with medical research. Involvement with matching
research to the needs of the community.
ENQUIRIES : Me. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/126 : PHYSIOTHERAPY ASSISTANT REF NO: H/P/08/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 - R248 226 per annum, OSD
Grade 2: R252 840 – R294 249 per annum, OSD
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, Appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapy Assistant.
Current registration with HPCSA for 2025/2026. Valid driver's license.
Knowledge and Skills: They should have good verbal and written
communication skills, ability to work in a team as well as ability to work under
pressure in changing environment. Additionally, they should be able to relive
colleagues as the need arises and work closely with other disciplines.
Wheelchair repair courses will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Conduct basic assessment and carry out treatment in consultation with
registered Physiotherapist and per scope of practice, assist Physiotherapist
with patient’s treatment sessions, follow clinical/ treatment protocol in
professional manner, train and educate patients on use of assistive devices.
Inform physiotherapist and supervisor about the patient progress, document,
treatment carried out. Participate in health promotion activities through
education of individuals and the community. Provide outreach service-
screening and treatment of patient. Conduct clinics and the group and other
related initiatives as directed by Physiotherapist. Prepare treatment areas and
physiotherapy equipment. Compile daily and monthly statistics. Attend monthly
staff meetings. Participate in staff development actives and participate in CPD
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Me. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
71
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE
Department of Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear
employment equity targets Women and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
NOTE : Applications are hereby invited for filling of vacant posts, which exist in the
Limpopo Department of Sport, Arts and Culture. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Department of
Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with
clear employment equity targets. Designated race group, females and people
with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to apply. Applicants
should apply using the Departmental Links allocated for each post. Only Z83
form and Curriculum Vitae (CV) should be attached. Certified copies of
educational qualifications, academic records, identity documents and a valid
driver’s license (where required) are only required to be presented on the day
of the interview. Faxed or e-mailed applications will not be considered. Failure
to comply with this requirement will result in the candidate being disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
However, should there be any dissatisfaction; applicants are hereby advised to
seek reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the posts advertised. Pre-Entry
Assessments: All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Practical Exercise: All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
The assessment must comprise a formal test to determine a candidate's
proficiency in core functions and the technical dimensions specified in the job
advertisement. https://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/documents/ep/2024 .
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to security clearance and pre-
employment verifications. Successful incumbent will be expected to sign a
performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose their financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. NB: Due to austerity measure the
Department will not carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and
meals) for candidates attending interviews. The advert will be posted on the
following websites www.sac.limpopo.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za, and
www.dpsa.gov.za Applicants will be assisted to apply through the link at
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture, 21 Biccard Street, Polokwane, Olympic
Towers.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/127 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPORT AND RECREATION REF NO: DSAC 2025/01
Component: Chief Directorate: Sport & Recreation
Re-advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 07) in Sport Management, Sport
Sciences/ Management / Sport Administration qualification or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at Senior
Management level. Extensive experience in Sport and Recreation Services.
SMS pre-entry (Nyukela) certificate upon appointment. A valid driver’s license
(with the exception of persons with disabilities). Core and Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and
72
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management; Financial Management;
Change Management; Computer Literacy; Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Communication; Public Service Knowledge; Negotiation,
Policy formulation and Analytic thinking. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the public services.
Knowledge of the relevant sport and recreation legislation. Thorough
understanding of policy formulation and coordination. Good background in
service delivery, turn around and change management strategy.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and high-level strategic direction and policy to the branch.
Undertake, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the strategic plans of
the chief directorate. Establish strategic direction of the branch to ensure
alignment with business plans. Manage sport and recreation services.
Coordinate processes for the upgrading of sport and recreation facilities
created by local authorities. Develop and manage the implementation of
seamless sport support programs, governance structures, coaching and
technical officiating. Manage sport and recreation services. Ensure
development and implementation of best practice manuals for the
implementation of sport and recreation programs. Develop mechanisms for
unlocking resources to extend the provision of sport and recreation services.
Manage the development of provincial policy framework for sport and
recreation governance. Develop a stimulating working environment for staff
through leadership and sound management and development strategy.
Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:CDsportrecreation@sac.limpopo.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL ARCHIVES & RECORDS REF NO:
DSAC 2025/02
Component: Directorate: Library and Archives
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum Level (12)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Archives / Records Management
/ Library Information Science / Studies as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
3 years’ experience in the Archives services environment. A minimum of three
to five (3 -5) years’ experience in the same field as Assistant Director level 9/10.
A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills and
Knowledge: Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations,
policies, and procedures. Administration procedures including norms and
standards. Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal
relations. Analytical skills. Written and verbal communication. Research skills.
Presentation skill. Training and presentation skills. Project management.
Interviewing skills.
DUTIES : Manage provincial records classification, appraisal and disposal services:
Preserving corporate memory and heredity, ensuring implementation of
retention and disposal schedules, responding to internal and external
information enquiries. Provide management, monitoring, evaluation and
training: advising on and implementing new records management policies and
classification systems, setting up maintaining, reviewing, and documenting
records systems, storing, arranging, indexing, and classifying records.
Collecting and appraisal of records: conduct inspections on records and
archives management, recommend issuing of disposal authority. Conduct
information research: document provincial heredity, research historic topics.
Management of human resources and physical resources in the division:
manage performance and development of employees within the division,
develop and review the division's plans, ensuring adherence to the service
delivery standards, compliance to applicable Acts, policies and strategies,
proper management and accountability for assets of the division, motivate and
inspire employees to attain organisational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:provincialarchivesandrecords@sac.limpopo.gov.za
73
POST 13/129 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: DSAC 2025/03
Component: Sub-Directorate: Security Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Leve 11)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Risk Management / Security
Services/Criminology /Safety Management as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of three to five (3 -5) years’ experience in the same field as Assistant
Director level 9/10. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Public Service
Regulations, policies, and procedures. Administration procedures including
norms and standards. Basic numeracy. Organizing and planning. Computer
literacy. Basic interpersonal relations. Problem solving. Communication.
Report writing.
DUTIES : To manage the implementation of physical security functions: to manage and
monitor that Physical Security site inspections are conducted and by also
assisting to conduct support visit at the district level, monitoring of security
services providers, manage access control, manage and monitor adherence /
compliance to security measures, hold quarterly meetings with security service
providers, manage the compilation of security reports, manage the
implementation of security policies, communicate with external stakeholder s
or agencies on matters related to physical security such as SAPS, SSA etc,
monitor compliance as well as implementation of security measures e.g.
policies, electronic security systems, security service providers, liaise and
create a good relationship with security law enforcement/ensure effective
communication with SAPS, SSA, and fire brigade, to advise the department on
security related matters, manage that security breaches/incidents are recorded
and security breach reports are compiled, conduct investigations on security
breaches, collect information for investigation the affected people, report
writing and making recommendations regarding steps to be taken to prevent
reoccurrence of security breaches, conduct security evaluations, manage that
security awareness programmes are conducted. Manage the implementation
of minimum information security standards (MISS) manage that vetting and
screening of employees are conducted, manage and ensure that personnel
suitability checks, fingerprints are conducted, manage and ensure technical
surveillance counter measure (TSCM) is conducted to strategic offices when
need arises. Manage the coordination of security during departmental events:
manage and coordinate security during departmental events in support of
event projects managers/organizers and advise on security measures to put in
place when having events, liaise and create a good relationship with security
law enforcement/ensure effective communication with SAPS, SSA, and fire
brigade, dept of health etc ,for support and advise the department on security
related matters in preparation of events. Manage the performance of
employees: Ensure that the performance of employees reporting directly to the
post holder are evaluated to ensure compliance with PMDS policy. Manage
compliance for contracted security service providers: Manage that reported
security breaches are investigated and recorded manage that SLA signed by
security service provider is complied with and meetings with security service
providers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:DDSercurityServices@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: DSAC 2025/04
Component: Chief Directorate: Financial Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum Level (09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting / Risk Management / Auditing. Three (3) years’ experience in
Finance / Auditing environment at salary level 7/8. A valid driver's license
(except for persons with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of
PFMA, Risk Management, project management, revenue and expenditure,
assets and liability management, public service policies. Must have computer
skills, communication skills, negotiation skills and ability to work under pressure
74
and ability to work with the team, Project management, People Management.
Financial Management. Change and Knowledge Management. Problem
solving and analysis. Client Orientation.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance regarding rules and regulations: Analysing financial
statements and commenting to the immediate superior on the credibility of the
report with respect to the financial position of the Department and compliance
with applicable Acts, perusing through contractual agreements and assesses
compliance with laid down procedures and policies, evaluating the adequacy
and capability of internal controls to identify with deviations from guidelines and
procedures, assessing the validity of performance in administrative functions
and checking compliance to specific legislative frameworks, preparing draft
comments and opinions on observations of specific processes, procedures,
controls and systems. Co-ordinate internal and external audit management
letters: Distribution of information to relevant units, ensure that responses are
provided on time " assist the unit in responding to the queries " facilitate that
the responses between the auditors and the department, ensure that the draft
report from the auditors is responded on time, facilitate the meeting between
the auditors and the relevant units, conduct follow up on non-responding to the
queries, co-ordinate and support the operations of both auditor general and
internal audit. Manage dissemination of information on specific key
performance areas: Invite members of the meeting, provide logistical
requirements of the meeting, write and distributes the minutes of the meetings,
follow up and report on the outcomes of the resolution taken from the meeting,
collaborating with other departments and professional bodies on audit
procedural applications and principles and provide advice on the alignment of
internal processes, forwarding of SCOPA resolutions to the units concerned for
responses " ensure that relevant attachments are forwarded with the report,
compile a monthly report on progress on scopa resolutions and await SCOPA
request on progress from the legislature. Facilitate the implementation of audit
investigative processes to determine irregularities or non-compliance:
Receiving audit committee reports and analysing the scope and nature of the
investigation, implementing procedures, analysing records and paper trails,
conducting interviews and, testing and/ verifying information and data, draft
comments, opinions and conclusions in respect of the investigation and
findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:ASDInternalControlandCompliance@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/131 : ARCHIVIST REF NO: DSAC 2025/05
Component: Directorate: Library and Archives
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Leve 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Archives / Records Management
/ Library Information Science / Studies as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
2 years’ experience in the Archives services environment. A valid driver’s
license (except for persons with disabilities) Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge
of Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Organizing and
planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations. Analytical skills.
Written and verbal communication. Research skills. Presentation skills.
Training and presentation skills. Project management. Interviewing skills.
DUTIES : Design, evaluate, implement and maintain records classification systems.
Design records classification systems in consultation with client offices, which
includes all governmental bodies. Ensure that client offices submit draft records
classification systems for evaluation and approval by the Provincial Archivist.
Provide records management training. Facilitate planning for the courses
through continuous liaison with stakeholders. Update the training manual and
compile in line with policies and procedures. Conduct appraisal of records for
disposal purposes. Conduct a contextual analysis, a comprehensive study of
the organization concerned. Formulate a hypothesis on the overall value of
records and records systems, indicating records with archival value and with
little or no value. Conduct inspections to ensure compliance with proper
records management practices. Draw up an annual inspection programme for
approval and dissemination to the concerned offices. Provide professional
support and advice to stakeholders. Conduct presentations on archives and
75
records management based on the need or the requests received from the
client offices. Participate in consultation meetings and for a to address relevant
concerns and problems with regards to records management practices.
Collect, arrange, describe and preserve non- public and public records.
Promote and market archival functions and services. Conduct educational and
public outreach programmes such as tours, lectures, classes and school visits.
Undertake the identification, research, selection and display of items for
exhibitions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:archivist@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/132 : LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2025/06
Component: Directorate: Library and Archives
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kgapane Library (Mopani District)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA in Library
& information Studies/Science. A minimum of 2 years’ experience of
Experience in the library environment. A valid driver's license (except for
persons with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Basic numeracy.
Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations.
Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Market and promote library services. Classify and catalogue library material.
Render reference and information services. Develop a new established library.
Render professional library and information service to the community. Assist
with identifying maintenance needs for the building, equipment, library assets
and material. Manage day to day library operations. Responsible for the
marketing and advocacy of library services and within the library. Facilitate
establishment and full participation of book clubs. Perform necessary library
administrative tasks. Conduct library orientation to users regarding library
usage and retrieval of information. Provide information service to library users.
Monitor library user's statistics and compile reports as required. Assist the
District Librarian to conduct asset verification. Liaise with stakeholders and
district library on library matters. Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual
reports. Supervise library staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:Librarian@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/133 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER; AFRIKAANS REF NO: DSAC 2025/07
Component: Language Services
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Languages / Language Practice
with specialization in Afrikaans as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years
of experience in the Translation field will be an added advantage. A valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge of Languages. Knowledge of Language policies (Limpopo
Language Policy). Ability to work under pressure. Capacity to remain
confidential. Communication with stakeholders.
DUTIES : Translation of official documents from source language to target language.
Proofread documents. Terminology development with language stakeholders.
Promotion of Literature. Conduct workshops for authors. Promotion of
multilingualism and indigenous knowledge systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032
APPLICATIONS : mailto:LanguagePractitionerAfrikaans@sac.limpopo.gov.za
76
POST 13/134 : TRAINING OFFICER REF NO: DSAC 2025/08
Component: Directorate: HRM & D
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Management of Training, Human
Resource Management or Development as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 2 years’ experience in the Human Resource Development environment. A
valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills and
Knowledge: Project management, Knowledge in human resource, sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and application of research
methodology, as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing
the public service Management and leadership, Public Service Regulations,
policies, and procedures. Administration procedures including norms and
standards. Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal
relations. Analytical skills. Written and verbal communication. Research skills.
Presentation skills. Training and presentation skills., problem solving skills,
planning and organising, good interpersonal communication skills and
coordination skills
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and implement internship and learnership programs: Coordinate
funding with SETAs, coordinate the completion of the skills audit, coordinate
with Colleges and Universities for learners placement, appoint and place
interns and learners, assist interns to complete contracts & all administrative
forms on assumption of duty, submit list of interns to Risk Management, inform
relevant directorates and staff on new placements, assist interns and mentors
to sign Performance agreement, hold quarterly monitoring meetings with
interns & mentors, coordinate submission of interns quarterly reports &
performance reviews, prepare testimonials and certificates, update database
of interns, manage interns’ time registers, prepare requisition vouchers and
facilitate payment of stipends. Coordinate orientation and induction programme
Identify and nominate newly recruited officials in the department for orientation
and induction: Draft specifications, book venue and send invitations.
Monitoring and evaluation, compile HRD programmes monthly and quarterly
reports, compile internship annual report, compile Monthly Skills Programme
reports, compile bursary annual report, design, develop and update training
data base. Coordination of training: coordinate and liaise with training
institutions and relevant stakeholders, draft specifications, send training
invitations, compile training reports, book venues, follow up training attendees,
capture training information on Workplace Skills Plan (WSP). Administer
Bursaries: Co-ordinate bursary programs, determine bursary needs, monitor
the performance of bursary holders, maintain bursary database. Coordination
of HRD Policies: Liaise with stakeholders on policy matters, update RIQ
Qualifications, coordinate implementation of RIQ, prepare MoU with
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Makaulule MM and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4144/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:trainingofficerhrd@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/135 : SPORT ADMINISTRATION: COMPETITIVE SPORT REF NO: DSAC 2025/09
Component: Directorate: Sport Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 06) as recognized by SAQA in Sport
Management / Sport Science/ Administration. Two (02) years’ experience in
Sport environment and Administration. A valid driver’s license (except for
persons with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge: Must have Facilitation and
presentation skills, Excellent verbal communication, reading and writing skills;
Project planning and report writing, Problem solving skills, Good interpersonal
relationships and Ability to work under pressure and Excellent Computer skills.
DUTIES : Maintain and update Sport Development data base: Ensure that customers are
satisfied with the services rendered, adherence of Batho Pele Procedures and
Principles. Render secretarial functions to the unit: Coordinate attendance of
meetings, send well typed, edited minutes for Sport Development and
management participation of meetings. Provide administrative logistical
support for services: Ensure customers are informed about the services to be
rendered. Ensure the application of Sport Development Procedures: Ensure
77
reports are compiled and submitted within the time frame. Ensure payments of
invoices for the external clients: Ensure that customers are informed about the
services to be rendered on time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:sportadmincompetitivesport@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/136 : PERSONAL AIDE REF NO: DSAC 2025/10
Component: Strategic Management and Planning
Re-advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 06) as recognized by SAQA. Must
have English (Communication at level 3) must have knowledge of working with
Blind people. Office Administration Certificate will be an added advantage. A
minimum of 1 to 2 years’ experience in working with Blind people. Sign
language will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for
persons with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge: People Management. Time
Management. Change Management. Project Management. Knowledge and
Change Management. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the public service.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide Disability Support. Provide driver and messenger service to a Disabled
person, Read printed documents to a disabled person when required, ensure
logistical support during attendance of meetings and workshops to be attended
by the disabled person, manage travel documentation when accompanying a
Disabled person, provide administrative support to the disabled person,
Manage calendar and correspondence, Facilitate the preparation and
dissemination of memos, Receive information in various forms and determine
the appropriate method of processing. Render general and technical support
in planning and implementation of projects / programs. Coordinate meetings
monthly to committees and forums. Compile monthly and quarterly reports.
Take minutes and manage the register, participate in meetings. Provide
General administration services. Develop database of relevant stakeholders
within the unit and distribute information. Keep all the records and file them
according to the departmental file plan, Update the collected information, Liaise
with relevant stakeholders daily.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:personalAide@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/137 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: DSAC 2025/11
Component: Directorate: Financial and Management Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification from a recognized
institution of Basic Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in
Accounting/ Financial Accounting / Financial Management as recognised by
SAQA will be an added advantage. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of administration procedures relating to library environment
including norms and standards. Must be computer and internet literate.
Planning and organising skills, Basic interpersonal relationship and problem-
solving skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Receive and validate payments before processing: receive payment vouchers
from supply chain, verify payments if they are ready for payment, capture the
payments on BAS/LOGIS, put a received stamp on the vouchers as soon as
they are received. Sort payments and register them for filing: sort payments
and maintenance of payment register, compare payment vouchers with
payment register if nothing missing, check the payments if they are signed and
stamped. Compile BAS/LOGIS payments advice and processing payments of
account: Attach payment advice for the payments which are paid, sort payment
vouchers according to the payment numbers, record all the payments to
registry for filing, verifying all the payments on the payment register. Print
payment register of the payments: Print a payment register for payments which
78
are paid, verifying all the payments on the payment register, take those for filing
at records. Attending to enquiries internal and external: Handle the enquiries
of payments telephonically, help the customers who want to check the status
of their payments if they will be paid or not, communicate with the end users if
something in their directorates need to be fixed regarding the suppliers who
rendered services, call the suppliers to update their accounts on CSD if they
are not updated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032
APPLICATIONS : mailto:financeclerk@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/138 : SPORT AND RECREATION GRANT ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: DSAC
2025/20 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Chief Directorate: Sports & Recreation
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus 37 % of lieu of benefit
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 qualification as recognised by SAQA. An undergraduate
qualification (NQF level 06) as recognized by SAQA in Sport Management /
Sport Science/ Administration. Two (02) years’ experience in Sport
environment and Administration. A valid driver’s license (except for persons
with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge: Public Service Acts, Regulations,
policies, and other legislative frameworks. Knowledge of Sport Administration
Planning and organising, knowledge of grant framework, Computer literacy,
Project planning, Problem solving Communication and Report writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate Sport and Recreation grant reports: Receive monthly and quarterly
reports, liaise with internal Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Directorate on grant
reports, receive submission of reports by districts and facilitate submission of
reports to various stakeholders. Administer sport and recreation business plan
system: Update Sport and recreation business plan system, capture Sport and
Recreation grant expenditure, consolidate sport and recreation grant business
plan, capture portfolio of evidence and attend sport and recreation grant
meetings. Provide support for women and disabled sport programmes: Provide
administrative support, render logistical arrangements for special sport
meetings and events and update the database for women and people with
disabilities participating in sport in the province. Monitor utilisation of sport and
recreation facilities: Update the database for Sport and Recreation facilities,
compile monthly records of utilised sport and recreation facilities, render
logistical arrangements of sport and recreation facilities meetings and render
administrative support for MIG projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032
APPLICATIONS : mailto:SRGrantAdministator@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/139 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT (X4 POSTS)
Component: Chief Directorate: District Coordination
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/12
Morebeng Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/13
Moletji Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/14
Khubvi Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/15
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification from a recognized
institution of Basic Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in
Library and Information Studies/Library and Information Science as recognised
by SAQA will be an added advantage. A valid driver ‘license (except for persons
with disabilities). Skills and Knowledge and understanding of administration
procedures relating to library environment including norms and standards.
Must be computer and internet literate. Planning and organising skills, Basic
interpersonal relationship and problem-solving skills. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of clerical support services within the library. Provide support
services for library administration. Computerisation of library material. Provide
support services for awareness and collection development. Assist with
processing of library materials to be shelve ready. Assist the librarian in day-to-
day management and operation of the library. Sorting, shelving and shelve
reading of library materials according to their categorisation. Assist with
79
executing library assets for asset management purposes. Assist library users
when looking for reading, research materials and computer related purposes.
Assist library users when looking for reding, research materials and computer
related information. Assist with counter, phone and email enquiries from library
users. Checking books in and out at the from desk. Register new customers
and maintaining and updating customer profiles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:LibraryAssistantMoletji@sac.limpopo.gov.za
mailto:LibraryAssistantSekhukhune@sac.limpopo.gov.za
mailto:LibraryAssistantmorebeng@sac.limpopo.gov.za
mailto:LibraryAssistantKhubvi@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/140 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DSAC 2025/16
Component: Directorate: Communications and Information Technology
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (Grade 8 or 9) (AET/ABET level 2 certificate) from a
recognized institution of Basic Education. Certificates of training services in
cleaning will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Work procedures
such as Cleaning, Operating equipment and Health and safety. Interpersonal
relationship, communication skills and Organising skills.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: Empty dirt bins, clean premises and
surroundings. Maintain the garden: watering the garden, prune and trim flowers
and trees, mow the grass, remove weeds and garden refuse, apply insecticides
and cultivate the soil for trees. Maintain gardening equipment and tools: Detect
and report malfunctioning of gardening equipment and tools and repair minor
defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032.
APPLICATIONS : mailto:groundsman@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/141 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: DSAC 2025/17
Component: Chief Directorate: District Coordination
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Muti Wa Va Tsonga
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (Grade 8 or 9) (AET/ABET level 2 certificate) from a
recognized institution of Basic Education. Knowledge and Skills: Good
communication skills. Be physically fit and in good health and not allergic to
grass and able to work under pressure and different working conditions or
environment (outdoor environment). Knowledge of different buildings,
maintenance and cleaning styles, (i.e. paving maintenance, bush clearing,
creation of firebreaks, soil erosion control, etc.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities on the maintenance of the Museums or Heritage site.
Ensure the cleaning and maintenance: cutting, collection and use of all raw
materials for the restoration and renovations of the museums or heritage site
structures and the surroundings, etc. Cleaning of museums or heritage site
facilities and structures, care of the allocated working tools and equipment.
Landscaping such as controlling water streams in the site to avoid soil erosion.
Ensure de-bushing and weed clearing around the Museums premises and the
surroundings. Creation and maintenance of fire breaks around the museums
and surroundings. Maintenance of Museums fence and enclosure. Render any
manual labour necessary for the effective care and maintenance of the
Museums.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Makaulule MM and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4144/4032
APPLICATIONS : mailto:gwmutiwavatsonga@sac.limpopo.gov.za
POST 13/142 : GENERAL WORKER (X2 POSTS)
Component: Chief Directorate: District Coordination
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: DSAC 2025/18
Tzaneen Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/19
80
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (Grade 8 or 9) (AET/ABET level 2 certificate) from a
recognized institution of Basic Education. Knowledge and Skills: Good
communication skills. Be physically fit and in good health and not allergic to
grass and able to work under pressure and different working conditions or
environment (outdoor environment). Knowledge of different buildings,
maintenance and cleaning styles, (i.e. paving maintenance, bush clearing,
creation of firebreaks, soil erosion control, etc.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities on the maintenance of the district. Ensure the
cleaning and maintenance: cutting, collection and use of all raw materials for
the restoration and renovations of the surroundings, etc. Cleaning of structures,
care of the allocated working tools and equipment. Landscaping such as
controlling water streams in the site to avoid soil erosion. Ensure de-bushing
and weed clearing around the premises and the surroundings. Creation and
maintenance of fire breaks around the district and surroundings. Render any
manual labour necessary for effective care and maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HR Intern Tel No: (015) 284 4143/
4109/4186/4032
APPLICATIONS : mailto:gwwaterburg@sac.limpopo.gov.za
mailto:gwtzaneen@sac.limpopo.gov.za
81
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR Sections as well as
considering the cost for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are advertised within the
Department professional registration will be required from various statutory
council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be considered.
Applicants must ensure that they fully complete and sign form Z 83, even if
they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the
Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note: The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/143 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL
REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/01
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in
terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in Health Sciences, preferably in Public
Health. A minimum of ten (10 years appropriate / recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in
management level at Public Health Service. Competencies: Knowledge of the
District Health System, District Health Planning, District Health Expenditure
Reviews. A demonstrable understanding of the PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment,
Client Orientation and Customer Care. Skills: Leadership, Excellent
Communication skills (verbal and written), Problem Solving, Computer Literacy
and Presentation Skills. Ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To coordinate and support the implementation of Communicable Disease
Control Health Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of
82
Malaria Control Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of
Infection Control Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of
HIV / AIDS related Programmes. To manage and coordinate Environmental
Health Services. To manage and coordinate, plan and support the
implementation of Health Promotion Programmes. To coordinate and facilitate
the implementation of Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) Programmes. To
coordinate and facilitate the implementation of HAS related services to reduce
the HIVAIDS prevalence. To coordinate and facilitate the implementation of TB
Control Programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/144 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
SALARY : R848 862–R900 948 per annum
CENTRE : Embhuleni Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Pharmacy Degree or equivalent qualification.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025). Core
competencies recommended. Commitment to quality development of self and
others. Computer literacy, good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Strong leadership and managerial skills.
DUTIES : Ensure proper selection and procurement of drugs and surgical items for the
hospital. Ensure rational use of drugs. Develop a hospital medicine formulary.
Monitor expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock
control functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Supervise and train Pharmacy Support Staff, Interns, Community Servers and
Junior Pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/145 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/ (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Moreipuso Clinic and Welveriend Clinic (Ehlanzeni District) Emalahleni Sub-
district, Thubelihle CHC, Emthonjeni Clinic (Machadodorp), Lefiso CHC,
Thembalethu CHC (Nkangala District), Diepdale Clinic, Dirkiesdorp Clinic,
Siyathemba CHC and Embalenhle CHC (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Primary Health Care after obtaining the 1 year post
basic PHC Nursing Science qualification. Experience and knowledge of the
District Health System. Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how this impacts
on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and financial
and practices. Knowledge of relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act,
Health Occupational and Safety Act, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Operational Management Skills. Problem solving, planning and
Organizing Skills. Expected to work under pressure and on night duty.
Leadership. Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, inter-personal ad
communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an in depth
understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and how this
impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added advantage (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
83
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance to the PHC delivery
package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and Standards
including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring adherence
to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and participation.
Manage and Monitor effective use and maintenance of assets and
infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/146 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Shongwe Hospital
Nkangala District: Impungwe Hospital and KwaMhlanga Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven
(7) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing
team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby
in accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining an optimal Nursing Services as an
Operational Manager in OPD Unit. Develop / establish and maintain
constructive working relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter-
Professional, inter–sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate
in the analysis, formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines,
practices, Standards, and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of
Human, Financial and Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth /
Ethical standards and self-development. Deliver a supportive service to the
Nursing Service and the institution by taking overall supervision after hours and
on weekends. Ensure implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal
Hospital Framework and develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage
Performance and Development of staff as well as participating in the Managers
scheduled meetings. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and other labour
related issues in terms of laid down policies or procedures. Manage data in the
unit and ensure submission to facility information office. Identity develops and
control Risk Management Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic
environment as laid by Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and
all the applicable prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection
Prevention and Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right
Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/147 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/ (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Msogwaba Clinic, Sikhwahlane Clinic, Orinocco Clinic,
Arthurstone Clinic and Islington Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
84
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Recommendations: Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the in Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/148 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/ (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Nkomazi Sub-district: Mangweni Clinic, Zoeknog Clinic
Ehlanzeni District: Mpakeni Clinic
Nkangala District: Phola CHC and Thembalethu CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Recommendations: Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the in Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
85
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/149 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOSS AND DISPOSAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Diploma / Degree
in Finance / Financial Management / Supply Chain Management / Purchasing
/ Logistics / Public Administration / Public Management / Management
Accounting / Economics / Auditing as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum
of 3 - 5 years’ relevant experience of which three (3) years’ experience must
be at supervisory / managerial (level 7/8). Key Competencies: Computer
literacy MS office; Sound knowledge of administration; Good interpersonal
relations, communication, verbal and written skills; Problem solving; Ability to
work under pressure and work independently; Teamwork; Knowledge of PFMA;
Logical and innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. Understanding of
modified cash standard (mcs). Public service transformation and management
issue. White paper on transformation of public service. Public service Act.
public service regulations and relevant prescripts. Departmental policies and
procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Labour relations and collective bargaining
systems. Minimum information security standards. Skills: Administration and
financial management. self– management. Budgeting and financial
management. customer focus and responsiveness. Development others.
Planning and organizing, decision- making, project management. Team
leadership, managing Interpersonal conflict. Impact and influence. computer
literacy diversity management. Networking and building bonds. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Render loss and disposal management services. Coordinate and administer
loss and disposal assets. Develop and implement guidelines on disposal of
assets and losses. Develop and monitor the implementation of management
policies, systems and processes. Co- ordinate, review and undertake the
implementation of the physical asset framework and policies, monitor assets
through verification (physical condition, functionality, utilization and financial
performance) evaluation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/150 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MOVABLE AND IMMOVABLE ASSESTS REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Diploma / Degree
(NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Asset Management, Logistics / Fleet management
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA.
At least a minimum of 3 - 5 years’ relevant experience of which three (3) years’
experience must be at supervisory / managerial (level 7/8). Key Competencies:
Computer literacy MS office; Sound knowledge of administration; Good
interpersonal relations, communication, verbal and written skills; Problem
solving; Ability to work under pressure and work independently; Teamwork;
Knowledge of PFMA; Logical and innovative thinking abilities and leadership
skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To render movable and immovable assets. Develop and render assets
management policies. Administer the transfers and movement of assets.
Conduct physical verification of assets. Facilitate the acquisition performance
and disposal of assets. Render the performance departmental assets and
facilities. Facilitate recording of loss, damage or management of assets.
Render asset register and registration of assets on LOGIS system. Provide
movable asset management services. Develop and maintain asset register.
86
Coordinate and administer donations and surpluses. Develop and implement
guidelines on asset management donations and surpluses. Develop and
monitor the implementation of asset management policies, systems and
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/151 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus BSc Dietetics Degree. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician (2025). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Render preventative Nutrition Services (including growth monitoring,
education, etc) in the surrounding clinics. Diet prescriptions for patients. Help
with food management of the hospital. Participate in quality Improvement
Programmes. Rendering of nutritional counselling services. Prescription and
authorization of special diet products. Implementation of guidelines for the
maintenance of healthy nutritional practices. Compilation and implementation
of information pamphlets on nutrition. Plan and implement a suitable
programme for an individual or group.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/152 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Barberton Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist (2025) (Independent
Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade
1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the HPCSA
as Physiotherapist (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified employees.
Extensive experience in the assessment and treatment of critical patients.
(Neurosurgery, Orthopaedic, ICU, etc.). Extensive management,
administration and supervisory experience. Ability to function within a multi-
disciplinary team setting to be flexible and to work independently. Good
problem-solving, conflict resolution, interpersonal, organizational and
communication skills. Willingness to work under pressure. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage a clinical load and develop. Physiotherapy services in all the sections
of the institution. Assist in the management, policy formulation, and operational
planning process of the unit. Supervise and develop personnel in team
including mentoring Physiotherapists at a more junior level. Undertake
quarterly evaluations and training of allocated operational staff and students.
Co-ordinate all administrative activities regarding the patients, clinical area and
in the unit. Supervise and train students. Participate in outreach programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
87
POST 13/153 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : H A Grove Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and paediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields
of mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is be expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for in, out and clinics patients. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/154 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Lydenburg Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) (2025). Grade 1: SA
Qualified employees: None after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign Qualified employees: One (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in SA. Hospital experience
and extensive knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety will be an added
advantage. Good interpersonal Skills, written, verbal and presentation Skills.
Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Ability and
willingness to travel. Good interpersonal relationship, Leadership skill. Valid
drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Ensure patient care during imaging for optimal diagnostic purpose: Explain
procedures to patients, prepare patient for imaging, Assist and position patient
for imaging, perform imaging. Practice radiation protection to minimize
radiation dose to staff, patients and general public: Establish LMC status of
female patients, adhere to radiation safety standards (secure area, lead aprons
etc), Apply correct radiation/exposure factors (correct dosages), Exercise
clinical responsibility to ensure optimal diagnostic imaging: Interpret clinical
history of patients to determine the correct procedure, ensure correct
positioning of patient to minimize radiation exposure to the patient, ensure
correct identification of patient image (name, lead markers etc.). Participate in
Education and training programs for continuous professional development and
quality service delivery: Practical training and evaluation of students Implement
quality assurance programs for quality service delivery, Check/test radiation
equipment and report faults, apply reject analysis, Adhere to policies and
protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
88
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/155 : DENTAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Matibidi Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Therapist. Current registration with the HPCSA as Dental Therapist
Grade 1 (2025): SA qualified employees: none experience after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service as required in SA. Foreign
qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge,
Skills Training and Competencies Required: Good verbal and written
communication skills. Good interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills.
Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety Act. Ability to perform basic quality
assurance tests. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Communicate effectively with patients to obtain and evaluate their dental
history and diagnose the condition. Scale and polish teeth. Carry out clinical
examinations. Treat and restore deciduous teeth known as pupil therapy.
Responsible for dental extractions. Take dental impressions and dental
radiographs. Recognize, identify and interpret abnormalities and common
pathology. Remove plaque and other coatings. Advice children and adults with
special needs about their dental treatment. Motivate and educate individuals
or groups of people to care for their oral hygiene and eat a healthy diet. Refer
patients where necessary to other healthcare professionals. Records
accurately patient’s dental history and dental treatment plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/156 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Financial
Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge
and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the following areas:
LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Capturing of receipts and journals on BAS. Monitoring of PEIS accounts. Billing
of PAIA accounts. Administer sectional logistics. Collect cash and deposit.
Prepare Own Revenue Transfer schedule. Prepare reconciliation and financial
reports. Request reports on BAS for submission to Provincial Treasury
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/157 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/APR/25/
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Matibidi Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
89
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Recommendations: Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of
Nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 13/158 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/25/40 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R264 750 – R298 482 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Gutshwa Clinic, Matibidi Hospital
Gert Sibande District: Eerstehoek Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus registered as Post- Basic Pharmacist
Assistant with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2024). Valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Skills in terms of consultations.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies. Good communication, problem solving and conflict management
skills. Professionalism, accuracy, flexibility, independence and ethical
behaviour.
DUTIES : Ensure proper receipt recording and storage of all medicines and consumables
according to standard operating procedures handled in the area of operations.
Ensure responsibility and accountability for safe patient medicine use.
Compounding and preparation of any medicines as delegated. Promote correct
evaluation prescriptions and legal processing of medicine prescription,
stocktaking and distribution of supplies to the client. Promotion of Public
Health. Ensure accurate recording of statistics and administrative requirements
as required by policy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
90
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT SAFETY AND LIAISON
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : Applications stating the relevant reference number must be sent to: Head of
Department: Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison, t & I Building, 69
Memorial Road, Kimberley, Private Bag X5016, Kimberley, 8300. Email:
Dtsl_recruitment@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms.J.J.Jafta
CLOSING DATE : 02 May 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department) and must be completed in full and page 2
originally signed; Clear indication of the post and reference number must be
indicated on your Z.83. A detailed comprehensive CV specifying all
qualifications and experience with respective dates. Applications submitted on
the incorrect application form (old Z83) will be disqualified. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, ID and
driver’s license before or on the day of the interview. It is the responsibility of
applicants in possession of foreign qualifications to submit evaluated results by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a personnel suitability check which includes criminal record
checks, verification of qualifications, financial and asset record checks,
previous employment verification and citizenship verification. Note" in line with
DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, applicants are required to submit the new
employment Z83 form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies or obtained at any government. A recently updated, comprehensive
CV, with at least two (2) contactable references should accompany the fully
completed and signed new (Z83) form. The provision of certified copies of
qualifications will only be required from shortlisted candidates for submission
on or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted applicants will be subjected to
qualification verification, reference checking, security screening and vetting.
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation only
when shortlisted. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only.
Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. The department reserves the right not to make
appointments to the advertised posts. Incomplete applications, applications
received after the closing date or applications without SAQA verification reports
for foreign qualifications will not be considered. It is important to note that it is
the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Each application for
employment form (Z83) must be duly signed and initialled by the applicant.
Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification during the selection
process. Applications submitted using the old Z83, as well as not submitting
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. All
applications, including those submitted via registered mail must reach the
department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date; late applications will
not be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 13/159 : SECURITY OFFICERS REF NO: S4.1/04/01 (X38 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Head Office: (Kimberley) Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : ABET / Grade 11 Certificate and Grade ‘’C’’ PSIRA or equivalent qualification.
1– 2 years’ experience in security operation. No criminal records or case
pending against you. Be able to work independently and in a team. Willingness
to work irregular hours and shifts (Day/Night including weekends and holidays)
due to the nature of the job, be willing to be vetted. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of Security legislation, policies and Procedures, Public Service
Regulations, Security Registers, Batho Pele Principles, MISS, Good customer
91
management skills, good communication, interpersonal skills, and Problem-
solving skills. Time management. Attributes: Discipline, Self-confidence,
Meticulous, Flexible, Initiative, Ethical, Reliable, Independent.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Provide escort to visitors and contractors
while in the premises. Subject everyone entering the premises and their
baggage to electronic search through metal detector and x-ray machine.
Ensure safety of staff and visitors in the building and premises. Provide general
and patrolling duties including in the parking area, searching of vehicles and
checking of security duty points ensure all incidents are recorded in the
occurrence book. Keep register of requests to open offices and report pattern
to supervisor. Ensure that only authorized person access parking and register
all visitors vehicles entering the premises. Ensure that all departmental assets
leaving the building are registered and authorized by relevant sub directorate.
Ensure that unauthorized persons and dangerous objects do not enter the
building/premises and allow visitors/contractors into the building as per
direction of security management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.Moses Mjoli at 083 505 1460, Ms.Jane Jafta at 069 224 6157
NOTE : Woman and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Note" in line with
DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, applicants are submitting Z83 and CV Only
92
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/160 : DISTRICT MANAGER: LANDCARE (MOORREESBURG) REF NO: AGR
34/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Civil Engineering; A minimum of 3 years management
experience; A minimum of 6 years’ experience in natural resources; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: B-Tech Degree (NQF 7) or an undergraduate qualification
(NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering or appropriate B.Sc.
Degree or appropriate B.Sc. Degree in Agriculture. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Land Conservation Act and financial schemes; Protection of
irrigated lands; Rehabilitation of agricultural lands; Engineering services; Risk
and disaster management practices and disaster relief schemes; Public
Finance Management Act. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and
verbal); Project management; Account and Finance and Audit; Information
Technology; Economic financial analysis; Policy interpretation; Strategic
Planning Report writing, prepared to travel; Ability to work independently and
as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of schemes and provision of agricultural disaster
risk reduction (prevention, mitigation, preparedness, response and relief)
support services; Manage planning of farms and Landcare services in the
conservation of the natural resources; Deliver advice to stakeholders and
promote integrated governmental relations and partnership building; Conduct
Financial Management Perform People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Petersen Tel No: (021) 808 5010
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/161 : TECHNICAL MANAGER: TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES
(ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 37/2025
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Animal Health; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
management of technical staff; Registration as an Animal Health Technician
with the South African Veterinarian Council; A valid code B (or higher) driving
license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Animal Disease Control; Effective and rapid implementation of
operational plans; Sound organisational and planning skills; Good
93
Communication Skills; Effective work planning and scheduling; Interpersonal
Relations; Analytical and problem-solving skills; Computer literacy (MS Word,
MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook).
DUTIES : Manage and improve working activities of Animal Health Technicians by
promoting standardisation, monitoring and evaluation; Manage operational
resources, equipment and supplies in the sub-programme: Animal Health To
ensure implementation of approved disease surveillance plans and good
record keeping of statistical data; Implementation of approved working plans in
providing a primary animal health care service to livestock farmers; To liaise
and coordinate action plans with stakeholders involved in animal disease
prevention and control; Assist management and provide information for
Programme reports and evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Magadla Tel No: (021) 808 5250 / (084) 488 7561
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/162 : LECTURER: ANIMAL PRODUCTION (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 38/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Agriculture Animal Production; A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience
in Animal Production; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: AgriSETA Assessor and
Moderation accreditation; Working knowledge and experience in training in
Plant and Animal production. Competencies: Good knowledge of the subject
field and proven knowledge of Animal Production. Skills needed:
Communication (written and verbal); Computer literacy; Leadership, Planning
and Organising; Formal training and presentation.
DUTIES : Prepare lesson plans and present practical, theoretical and/or short courses;
Renewal and development of course material and study guides; Assessment
of students through compilation of question papers and memorandums for
examination; Administrative responsibilities; Keep abreast of applicable
prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new developments in the
subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Jacobs Tel No: (021) 808 7000
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/163 : TRACTOR DRIVER/OPERATOR: GROUNDS MAINTENANCE
(ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 36/2025
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant
experience; A valid (Code C1) driving licence. Competencies: Good
understanding of the following: Practical knowledge of routine tractor work and
use of correct implements with the tractor to plough, mowing grass, cleaning
of ditches and to a heavy-duty trailer; Ability to handle tools and to perform
basic maintenance; Skills needed: Self-management; Communication (written
and verbal); Computer literacy in MS Office package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Operate tractor with various implements to assist with farm activities; Transport
of various goods; Garden, cleaning and disposal of waste material; Perform
vehicle maintenance and administrative support activities; Ensure safe
storage, cleaning and routine vehicle/implements maintenance such as tyre
checking, water levels, oil and tyre pressure; Assist with dispensing and
receiving fuels and oils; Firefighting and prevention.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Govender Tel No: (021) 808 5422
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
94
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm); Or
2. Post application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974, Or
3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/164 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIBRARY SERVICES, METROPOLE REF NO:
CAS 27/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: Experience in Library Collection development.
Competencies: Knowledge of Collection development; Planning and
organising; Interpersonal relationships; Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Supervision; Communication skills
(written and verbal); Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Oversee the administration and provision of library material and equipment in
a control area; Asset management (assets and disposals) in a control area;
Provide professional guidance and training in a control area; Project
implementation and library planning in a control area; Financial management;
People management
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Mouton Tel No: (044) 814 1481
POST 13/165 : HERITAGE OFFICER: BUILT ENVIRONMENT REF NO: CAS 17/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (or higher qualification) in
Architecture, History, Art History, Town and Regional planner, Engineering,
Building Sciences, Social history, Archaeology, Palaeontology or related
discipline; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
95
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Training
in Architecture, Anthropology, History, Art History, Town and Regional planning,
Engineering, Building Sciences, or related disciplines. Skills needed: Computer
literacy; Written and verbal communication; Analytical thinking; Project
Management; Development of systems and databases; Planning and
organising.
DUTIES : Processing application for permits, impact assessment and appeals received
in terms of the National Heritage Resources Act (Act 25 of 1999) and other
relevant legislation; Develop proposals for formal protection of heritage
resources; Monitor and enforce compliance with permits and conditions of
impact assessments and other aspects of legislation; Provide professional/
technical assistance/ advice and undertake advocacy on heritage matters;
Provide professional/ technical assistance to other departments/ units.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Dhansay Tel No: (021) 829 3221
/Waseefa.Dhansay@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/166 : HERITAGE OFFICER: ARCHAEOLOGY, PALEONTOLOGY AND
METEORITES REF NO: CAS 18/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (or higher qualification)
Social history, Archaeology or related discipline; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation:
Experience in Microsoft Office packages. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Training in archaeology, and related disciplines; Human resource
Management; Management of Finance in line with the PFMA. Skills needed:
Computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Analytical thinking;
Project Management; Development of systems and databases; Planning and
organising; Conflict resolution.
DUTIES : Process applications received in terms of the NHRA (25 of 1999); Provide
specialist advice on applications and appeals with regard to archaeology,
palaeontology and meteorites; Provide a secretariat service to HWC for
APM/IACOM; Monitoring and enforcement of compliance in terms of heritage
policies with regard to archaeology, palaeontology and meteorites; Manage a
provincial heritage conservation service in terms of Section 38 development
applications with regard to archaeology, palaeontology and meteorites (APM);
Provide professional/ technical assistance to other departments/ units.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Dhansay Tel No: (021) 829 3221
/Waseefa.Dhansay@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/167 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICE REF NO: CAS 19/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation:
Experience in Microsoft Office packages; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Relevant job
knowledge; Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; Good written and verbal communication; Planning and organising;
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component and to the public entity Heritage Western Cape;
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component; Provide financial administration support services in the component
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Ismail at 021 483 9695 / Zahraa.Ismail@westerncape.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
96
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/168 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (SPECIALISED PRODUCTION): AIR
QUALITY REGULATORY SERVICES REF NO: EADP 03/2025
SALARY : R498 816 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant Honours Degree in Environmental Management or Physical / Natural
Sciences or Engineering (or an equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B)
driving license. Recommendation: Experience in the following: Environmental
Management, Integrated Environmental Management, particularly Air Quality
Management; Regulatory Services (licensing, permitting, etc.); Environmental
Legislation; Compliance and Enforcement; Project Management / Planning.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Environmental management (air
quality management, integrated environmental management; pollution
management; Air Quality Management Systems (e.g. atmospheric emission
licensing, air quality management planning, etc.); Compliance monitoring and
enforcement with respect to statutory obligations (e.g. NEMA; NEM: AQA);
Environmental legislation (e.g. NEMA, NEM:AQA); Skills needed: General
office / administrative, budgeting and financial management; Research and
report writing; Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal
communication; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide specialist advice and technical expertise towards the development and
administration of Air Quality Management systems and policies; Provide
leadership support, guidance and technical advice on the development and
implementation of specific projects (e.g. Atmospheric Emissions Licensing,
Emissions Inventory, Dispersion Modelling; Air Quality Management Planning,
information management and capacity building); Contribute towards the
development and implementation of air quality regulatory projects and capacity
building; Provide specialist advice and technical expertise and assistance with
respect to Atmospheric Emissions Licensing processes and Integrated
Environmental Management applications; Provide specialist inputs on
compliance monitoring and enforcement with respect to statutory obligations
(NEMA and NEM: AQA); Provide support and input to all financial
management, human resource management, administrative and strategic
planning and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Roux Tel No: (021) 483 8378
POST 13/169 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT REF NO: EADP 04/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary National Diploma/B-Degree in Environmental
Management, Natural or Environmental Sciences or related field; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher); Registered as a Candidate Environmental
Assessment Practitioner (EAP) or Registered as an EAP with the
Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South Africa
(EAPASA): already registered; or meets the requirements for registration and
have either already applied for registration or will by a certain date apply for
registration (appointment will be conditional to actual registration with EAPASA
by a specified date). Recommendation: Working knowledge and experience in
97
the following: Review of EIA applications; Integrated Environmental
Management, including applicable legislation and policies; post-decision
requirements (e.g. amendment applications, Environmental Audit reports and
ECO reports). Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Balanced
environmental knowledge including biophysical knowledge of the functioning
of ecosystems, interactions and other environmental aspects; Methodologies
and techniques for evaluation of environmental impact assessments;
Methodologies for the evaluation of environmental management programme
reports, as well as environmental monitoring, audit and ECO reports; Practical
implementation of environmental policies, guidelines, norms and standards;
Environmental management systems; Practical implementation of
environmental legislation, policies, norms and guidelines; Integrated
Environmental Management; EIA process applicable in the Western Cape;
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Report writing; Problem
Solving.
DUTIES : Maintain quality and productivity with regards to evaluation of applications in
terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Implementation of the
compliance monitoring and auditing strategy for environmental authorisations;
Maintain quality and productivity with regards to the processing of post-
decision reports and applications, for example, amendment applications,
Environmental Audit reports and ECO reports; Maintain quality and productivity
with regard to provision of comment on assigned non-applications; Leadership
in assigned projects; Qualifications with respect to environmental
management, natural or environmental sciences or related field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 483 5756
POST 13/170 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT REF NO: EADP 05/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE
FOR A 24-MONTH CONTRACT)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary National Diploma/B-Degree in Environmental
Management, Natural or Environmental Sciences or related field; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher); Registered as a Candidate Environmental
Assessment Practitioner (EAP) or Registered as an EAP with the
Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South Africa
(EAPASA) or meets the requirements for registration and have either already
applied for registration or will by a certain date apply for registration
(appointment will be conditional to actual registration with EAPASA by a
specified date).Recommendation: Working knowledge and experience in the
following: Review of EIA applications; Integrated Environmental Management,
including applicable legislation and policies; Post-decision requirements, for
example, amendment applications, Environmental Audit reports and ECO
reports. Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Environmental
Management, including applicable legislation and policies; Balanced
environmental knowledge including biophysical knowledge of the functioning
of ecosystems, interactions and other environmental aspects; Methodologies
and techniques for evaluation of environmental impact assessments;
Methodologies for the evaluation of environmental management programme
reports, as well as environmental monitoring, audit and ECO reports; Practical
implementation of environmental policies, guidelines, norms and standards;
Environmental management; Practical implementation of environmental
legislation, policies, norms and guidelines; Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Strong report writing; Sound interpersonal; Project
management; Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Maintain quality and productivity with regard to evaluation of applications in
terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Implementation of the
compliance monitoring and auditing strategy for environmental authorisations;
Maintain quality and productivity with regard to provision of comment on
assigned non-applications; Leadership in assigned projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E van Boom Tel No: (021) 483 2877 / Eldon.vanBoom@westerncape.gov.za
98
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the Post: Professional Nurse Grade 1 to 3
(General: General Female), Paarl Hospital, Chief Directorate: Rural Health
Services, with Ref No: Post 11/194: advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
11 dated 28 March 2025. The closing date of the post has been extended to 25
April 2025.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/171 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIA)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidates to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well
as ability to work flexible and after-hours. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license,
as well as willingness and ability to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sufficient and appropriate clinical experience in the management of
Anaesthetic procedures in a regional hospital comprehensively. Experience in
anaesthetizing children under the age of 1 years would be recommended.
Good work etiquette; excellent communication skills; conflict management;
cost conscious care provision. Good technology and computer skills; problem-
solving experience; leadership and mentoring experience. Proven knowledge
of public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage resources
effectively. Performance of audits or research and publications. Experience in
anaesthetizing children under the age of 1 year and children with a weight of
more than 3 kilograms. Experience in teaching and conducting research.
DUTIES : Render an efficient and cost-effective Anaesthesia service to patients managed
by the institution and district as the Rural East Ecosystem, by balancing
throughput with quality. Ensure the rational use of resources, participate in
audits and Clinical Governance activities. Ensure appropriate training of all
clinical staff, including students, Internship doctors, Community service doctors
and nursing and allied staff in the department, the hospital and the district.
Partake in Outreach and Support services, as needed, to the greater Rural
East Ecosystem. Ensure good relations with patients, nursing staff, colleagues
and referral services at tertiary and district hospital level. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters. Do appropriate clinical audits and research
within the department to stay abreast of clinical development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Koen Tel No: (044) 802-4535
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
99
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/172 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid South African
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Participate in the after hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and skills in
obstetrics and gynaecology care. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of
staff. Ability to perform a Caesarean section safely and without supervision with
the experience of a minimum of 50 Caesarean Sections done independently.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical triage and management of all non-acute and emergency O&G
presentation to the Labour Suite at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Managing
critically ill patients including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of
students, interns and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service
regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the department. Ensure a cost -efficient service at clinical level
with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TA Horak Tel No: (021) 659 5579
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates will be required to submit a logbook outlining their surgical
experience in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
100
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/173 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing, and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, clinical guidelines,
and related prescripts to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing
to work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348 1141
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester
Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
101
POST 13/174 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(12 Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 412 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Vanguard CHC (X1 Post)
Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license
(Code B/EB). Willingness to work within the geographic area at various
facilities. Willingness to perform Commuted Overtime duties in the PHC
services. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and management of
general medical and surgical conditions as well as emergency conditions at a
PHC level. Experience working at a Primary Care level after community
service. Knowledge applicable to South African TB and HIV care guidelines,
mental health care, women and child health care and chronic diseases.
Comprehensive, evidence based, direct patient-centred clinical service
provision at a primary care level. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and
willingness to perform outreach services within the Southern Western
substructure and to provide support and guidance to junior colleagues and
nurses.
DUTIES : Provide quality clinical care to outpatients and emergency clients presenting at
primary care facilities in Southern Western Substructure. Participate in skills
transfer and training activities. Active involvement in clinical governance
activities in the substructure.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Katy Murie Tel No: (021) 797 8451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Metro Health Services for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
102
POST 13/175 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY (INTERN) (X14 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(01 January 2026 until 31 December 2026)
SALARY : R712 599 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Various Institutions
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Honours degree in Psychology. Successful
completion of the theoretical part of the master’s degree in clinical psychology.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical Psychology Intern
(1 January 2026). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Achievement of training
standards set by the HPCSA and SA Professional Board of Psychology.
Current enrolment in a Clinical Psychology MA program is recommended.
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : In and outpatient clinical assessment, psychological treatment and formulating
of psychiatric conditions in adults and children. Outreach and support to district
and community health clinics. Ward work will comprise of a range of psychiatric
diagnoses, as well as medical wards, intellectual disability and forensic
services. Conducting psychometric assessments including comprehensive
neuro-psychological, personality and developmental evaluations. General and
clinical administrative tasks. Participation in the academic training program of
the departments of Clinical Psychology.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs Bianca Beukes Tel No: (021) 815 8749
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. All applicants are to
submit a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae; 3 referee reports and Interim
Supervisors reports; Identity Document, Matric certificate, Academic
transcripts and HPCSA registration certificate as Psychology Student. The
interns will be exposed to different service areas, including community and
district services. All applicants should indicate their preference of these 3
available training sites: Training site A (Groote Schuur, Red Cross Children’s
Memorial, Valkenberg and Alexander Hospital) Training site B (Tygerberg and
Stikland Hospital) Training site C (Lentegeur Hospital) Applicants may be
placed at other institutions, depending on the availability of posts. The applicant
should indicate their preference on the online application portal. All short-listed
candidates will be expected to submit a reflective task prior to the interview. It
will be expected of successful candidates to provide your year-end final
supervisor’s report if you are selected to the Intern program. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/176 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Grabouw CHC, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
midwife. Post-basic qualification with the duration of at least 1 year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5
103
years of the period above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth
knowledge of legislation pertaining to nursing and public service. Knowledge
of People Management and financial policies. Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel). Good communication, interpersonal, decision-making, leadership,
organizational and conflict resolution skills with a strong sense of responsibility
and accountability. Experience in public Clinic/CHC/CD sector.
DUTIES : Management, coordination and provision of quality comprehensive care within
the facility. Effective personnel development and management within the
Department. Effective financial management and procuring as well as
implementing of policies, prescripts and protocols according to the Public
Service Finance Management Act and Regulations. Ensure the promotion of
Quality Assurance, Infection control and Occupational Health and Safety within
the Department. -Initiate and participate in training, development and research
within the nursing division. Liaise with relevant stakeholders including
institutional committees. Promote health education to clients, the public and
staff. Collect, verify and timeous submission of accurate statistics. Participates
in formulating, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standard
operating procedures and regulations within the department. Deliver an
effective support service to the Nursing Manager and ensure effective
coordination. Maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Human Tel No: (028) 814-3712
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to competency assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Overberg District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/177 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: ADVANCED
MIDWIFERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : MOU Michael Mapongwana Community Day Centre, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-
structure)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Advance Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife and proof of current registration (annual
licencing receipt of 2025). Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period of the above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification a
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Principles of Management: leadership, supervision, problem solving, conflict
resolution, interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation pertaining to: Labour Relations, Nursing Legislation, related Legal
and Ethical Nursing Practices and Framework and relevant Public Sector
Policies and Protocols. Human Resources and Financial Management,
including computer literacy (MS, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for the coordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
allocated Maternal Child and Woman’s Health department. Participate in
formulating, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards,
procedures, and regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant
department. Provide effective support and management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as functional business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance training and personal development of self
104
and sub-ordinates, including management of under-performance and
grievances. Collect, provide and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery. Participate in and encourage nursing research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 827-4884
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from the date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written/oral and competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/178 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALITY AREA: OBSTETRICS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma or
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post basic nursing qualification
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Advanced
Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in
Advanced Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Inherent requirement of the
job: Will be required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Will be
required to deliver standby duties for the Hospital Will be on required to deliver
standby duties for Obstetric Theatre cases. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Knowledge and insight
of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing specialty within the
public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpersonal, leadership, organisational skills, decision making, and conflict
resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and guidance towards realization of strategic
goals and objectives of the organization through the implementation of policies,
regulations and professional practices. Managing, planning, co-ordinating and
maintaining Quality patient Care in an Obstetric unit and Outpatient
Department. Quality assurance management by ensuring the implementation
of relevant programmes and practises. Utilize the information management
systems to enhance patient care and service delivery. Effective management
and utilisation of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ED Titus Tel No: (023) 319-600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a competency-based assessment. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital, Witzenberg Sub-
district for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/179 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL: OPD)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e degree/
diploma in Nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
Nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required to work shifts,
105
weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective
communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and conflict
resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure. Basic computer literacy. Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation
and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as an Operational Manager.
Participative management and utilisation of Human Resources to fulfil
operational and developmental functions in the area. Manage and monitor the
Financial Resources of the clinical area. Initiate and participate in training,
development and research within the nursing department. Deliver a support
service to the Nursing Service and the institution. To maintain ethical standards
and promote professional growth and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/180 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (CLINICAL
SOURCING)
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and understanding of clinical
consumables, services & equipment within a healthcare environment.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver's license (Code B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
management skills, incl. ability to manage a team. Problem Solving. Rigorous
expenditure analysis and reporting. Ability to assimilate and interpret detailed
information. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Strong
research skills and attention to detail. Report-writing. Computer literacy (Word,
Excel and PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Provide an integrated demand, acquisition and contract management service
of critical goods and service commodities within the Department of Health with
a focus on: End-to-end management of the sourcing process: integrated
demand, acquisition and contract management service of clinical goods and
services commodities. Commodity-based lifecycle costing: conduct market
research within commodity range, research new developments and best
practice, identify opportunities to reduce cost base through efficient
procurement. Supplier relationship and performance management. Internal
and external stakeholder management. Human resource management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ayanda Mili Tel No: (021) 834 9050, email: Ayanda.
Mili@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/181 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE (PATIENT ADMIN & REVENUE
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Administration,
Revenue Collection and Information Management in a Hospital environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): In depth Knowledge of the PFMA, Hospital
Fees Memorandum Chapter 18, including patient administrative related
policies, Handling of state monies and receipts, procedures, practices and
(UPFS) Uniform Patient Fee Schedule. Computer literacy in MS Package.
106
Practical workable knowledge of ARS (Accounts Receivable System), BAS
(Basic Accounting System) and Hospital Information Systems. Excellent
interpersonal and communication skills with a strong sense of responsibility.
Excellent Leadership skills and the ability to manage and coordinate a large
component. The ability to interpret and analyse management reports as well
as excellent report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the overall performance of the Patient Administration, Revenue and
Information Management Components. Responsible to implement and
maintain internal controls and improvement plans in the various components
to ensure compliance with the relevant Finance Instructions, Prescripts and
Revenue Notices. Provide strategic input to minimising financial risk and
optimise revenue collection at the Hospital. Ensuring quality monthly reporting
is completed and submitted timeously for the various components. Ensuring
effective Human Resource Management practices and processes are in place:
Disciplinary Procedures, Supervision Structures, Leave Management,
Performance Evaluations and Monitoring of the staff within various
components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cajada Tel No: (021) 402 6594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/182 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FINANCE (DEBT MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Accounting or equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
hospital fees/finance environment. Appropriate experience with the compilation
of AFS and application of General Recognised Accounting Practices.
Appropriate working experience on the HIS Accounts Receivable System.
Appropriate working experience on the application of Microsoft Word and
Excel. Appropriate working experience in the compilation of formal
submissions. Appropriate supervisory experience in a financial environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience of the Hospital
Fees policies and procedures. Knowledge and experience of UPFS tariff
structures. Knowledge and experience of the HIS, Accounts Receivable
System. Knowledge and experience in claims administration-submission to
third party funders (State Departments and Medical Aids). Knowledge and
experience of the Western Cape Health Facility Board and Committees Act.
Excellent verbal and written communication, people and interpersonal
relationship skills. Analytical thinking abilities with mathematical and
accounting literacy. Good organisational, planning and time management
skills. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications (Word and Excel).
Preparedness to work overtime, travel and overnight away when required.
DUTIES : Debt management and debt recovery strategies. Manage, monitor
performance and meeting with external services providers and third-party
funders. Annual revision of UPFS/Sundry tariffs and updating of the procedure
manuals and UPFS user guide. Manage the process of submitting claims to
the RAF and COID, Oversee the payment of accounts and the allocation
income received. Administration of Health Facility Boards financial matters,
including the Annual Financial Statements and training. Supervision and
development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AE van Driel, tel. no. (021) 483 3297
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates would be expected to complete a competency test as part of the
evaluation process.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
107
POST 13/183 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST: GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions council of South Africa (HPSCA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South African (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work as a physiotherapist
within a multi-disciplinary team at Cederberg SD. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and Outlook). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable health legislation,
relevant acts, policies and procedures. Understanding evidence-based
practice.
DUTIES : Render a clinical physiotherapy service at health facility level with outreach to
PHC facilities. Mobility assistive devices. Training. Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Sr. M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482 1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-district for a
period of three months.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/184 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/FEES/ PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION (IN AND OUTPATIENT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate
experience in a Patient Administration environment including Hospital
Information Systems. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
and Labour Relations abilities. Good management skills. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint). Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18, UPFS, HIS (Clinicom) Finance Instructions, PFMA
and Treasury Instructions. Knowledge of Budget.
DUTIES : Interpretation and application of directives and policies. Management and
control of Fees Patient Administration department (In-patient and out-patient
administration functions). Ensure all Billing procedures are completed in line
with Revenue Generated projects. Ensure all Patient Administration
procedures as per Hospital Fees Manual and Financial Instructions is
maintained. Manage Revenue Targets. Monitor all Cash Collection reports.
Willing to relief colleagues in areas.
108
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Langenhoven Tel No: (021) 404 2358
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to attend a practical test. The pool of candidates
will be considered for similar vacant posts within Groote Schuur Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/185 : DRG COSTING SPECIALIST
Directorate: Management Accounting
Sub-Directorate: Billing System Support, Compliance Auditing and Training
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate four-year National Diploma
or three-year Degree in health-related field or equivalent registrable with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or the South African
Nursing Council (SANC). Experience: Appropriate experience in case
management in public or private healthcare sector. Appropriate experience in
clinical procedural costing in South Africa. Appropriate experience with using
Uniform Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS) or equivalent. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to travel between
Health institutions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced knowledge
computer literacy skills in MS Excel and Word. Skills in research and analytical
thinking. The ability to analyse information, solve problems and to prepare
complex reports. Understanding of Hospital Fees Structure, PFMA, Hospital
Fees Policies and Procedures. Excellent interpersonal relations and conflict
resolution. The ability to work co-operatively with colleagues and stakeholders
at all levels of authority but also to work independently and unsupervised.
Ability to analyse information and work with figures to produce a cost outcome.
DUTIES : Public health care costing of high volume and high resource services across
the Western Cape Province. Perform assessment and costing of audited data
through utilization of clinical records, accounts and invoices and capture data
utilizing a data capturing tool. Assess health service utilisation to measure the
cost of comprehensive health needs of the individual client and to ensure
quality and cost-effective outcomes. Professional communication both
telephonically and in writing with all role players. Accurate record keeping and
general office and ad-hoc duties. Procedural observation and interviews to gain
costing insights.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Daniels Tel No: (021) 940-4456
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/186 : CHIEF FOOD SERVICES MANAGER (CATERING SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Food Service
Management or a BSc in Dietetics or an equivalent qualification. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a large-scale Hospital Food Service environment.
Appropriate management/supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of hygiene and safety procedures in an
Industrial Food Services Unit. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
Knowledge and skills with regard to the operation of an Industrial Food
Services Unit. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the strategic and operational management of the Food
Services Unit. Manage divisional hygiene, occupational health and safety,
physical resources and quality. Plan and evaluate the training and development
of divisional personnel. Responsible for the performance management of the
divisional personnel as well as the management of discipline and grievances
in the division. Plan and implement cost-effective, balanced and acceptable
109
menus. Manage, monitor and control the Food Services budget and stock
levels.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Kana Tel No: (021) 8265 789
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/187 : CASE MANAGER
West Coast District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in liaison with Hospital / Health Facility, medical aid
(funders), clinicians, and managed care organisations with regards to MHC
policies, protocols, optimal fund utilisation and updated clinical information.
Appropriate experience in Case Management/Medical Aid Environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel for meetings. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the anatomy of the human body, medical diagnoses, procedures,
tests and products with excellent time management and training skills. Ability
to link patient diagnoses with procedure codes and the ability to analyse and
implement policies and knowledge of UPFS, Hospital Administration, Fees,
Policies and procedures, ICD 10 codes/diagnostic codes, Medical Aid Act 131
of 1998 (e.g. section on Prescribed Minimum Benefits). Computer literacy (MS
Word/Excel).
DUTIES : Efficiently and effectively communicate and update clinical information for
externally funded clients. Efficient and effective interpretation and
implementation of Case Management policies, protocols and procedures within
the hospital. Co-ordinate the workflow processes between clinical and admin
personnel. Supervision of Patient Administration (AO: Finance -
Admissions/Hospital Fees and component staff). Liaison with relevant role
players in matters relating to Patient Administration/Hospital Fees & Case
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CA Davids Tel No: (027) 213-2038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Matzikama
Sub-district for a period of three months.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/188 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital, Oudtshoorn and Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Proven experience in
Supply Chain Management. Appropriate working experience in LOGIS system
& EPS. Appropriate experience in Inventory management, procurement
processes, systems and LOGIS in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to
work after hours when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Organisational, leadership skills and an aptitude for working with financial
figures. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Microsoft Office) with
knowledge of LOGIS. Sound Knowledge of applicable policies (PFMA, AO
System, Departmental SCM Delegations and applicable Treasury regulations).
110
Ability to work independently in a high-pressure environment, and with multiple
projects at once, while complying to due dates.
DUTIES : Oversee compliance within the Supply Chain Management (SCM) department
and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement policies,
processes including management of acquisition, contracts, assets, demand
and the institutionalisation of proper SCM practices. Inventory control and
warehouse management. Perform LOGIS system controller functions.
Responsible for timely and accurate reporting of Annual Financial Statements
(including Interim) including submission of inventory, assets, gifts and
donations, commitments and accrual information to District office and/or Head
Office. Manage staff in component in all aspects of People Management (leave,
performance, conflict management, training and development etc.).
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mars Tel No: (044) 203 - 7247
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/189 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (ACCOUNTING & BUDGETS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director: Metro Health Services, Bellville Health Park
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Finance that focusses on the key performance areas (KPA’s) of the post.
Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to interpret
and apply financial policies, procedures and prescripts. Appropriate knowledge
of financial management in the public service, including the legislative
framework. Computer skills: Microsoft Office. Proven experience of BAS &
PERSAL. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Timeous clearance of Asset & Liabilities accounts. Transfer payments to NOP’s
and City of Cape Town. Ensure effective and efficient compliance with sundry
payment/regulations and BAS journals. Reporting. Capture S&T claims and
advances on PERSAL. Petty Cash Administration. Debt Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Grobler Tel No: (021) 815-8673
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/190 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime when necessary.
Willingness to work in other wards inside hospital. Will be required to work
shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
111
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Ability to work independently and in a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of quality nursing patient centred care in a hospital setting. Render
administrative duties according to quality assurance strategies. Provision of
optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human and
financial resources, Information management and support services. Improving
quality of health services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WB Smeda Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Ceres Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/191 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (TRAINING RELIEF)
West Coast District
(Contract until 31 December 2025)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
degree/diploma in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate / recognizable experience after registration
as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate / recognizable experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public holidays and night duty as
well as overtime when necessary. Willingness to rotate between wards within
the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent communication with
community and other stakeholders’ engagement and facilitation skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies including Health care 2030,
Sustainable Development Goals, 1st 1000 days. Excellent planning and
organisational skills in Community Health Care, programs and services.
Computer literate in Microsoft office programs. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional / legal framework. Effective utilization of resources: Human
Resources, Material Resources and Services. Participation in training and
research. Provision of support to Nursing Services. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ML Mphato Tel No: (022) 921 2153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
112
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-district, for
a period of three months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/192 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts and overtime when
necessary. Willingness to work in other wards inside hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good interpersonal,
communication skills. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary
team.
DUTIES : Provision of quality nursing patient centred care in a hospital setting. Provision
of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human and
financial resources, Information management and support services. Improving
quality of health services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Stellenbosch Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/193 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Pacaltsdorp CDC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post-Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with a Professional Council:
Current registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic)
(Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
113
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the
job: -Have a valid driver’s license and willingness to travel in the district.
Willingness to work at other clinics in the Sub-District. Willingness to work
overtime and after hours as needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures. Good numeric
skills. Knowledge and/or experience in handling pharmaceutical supplies
particularly in clinic environment, including appropriate cold chain practices.
Knowledge of Drug Supply Management Principles. Knowledge of Good
Pharmacy Practice. Meticulous and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Working under both direct and indirect supervision of a pharmacist. Manage
drug supply within the facilities, including but not limited to correct ordering of
stock, receiving and checking of stock, appropriate stock control and storage,
rotation of stock to prevent expiry, accurate handling of expired stock, and
appropriate temperature control. Dispensing and issuing of acute and chronic
scripts according to Standard Treatment Guidelines and the WCGHW
Pharmaceutical Code List. Issuing medication prepared by Tertiary Institutions
and CDU (Chronic Dispensing Unit) and the management thereof. Collection
of all pharmacy related data, ensuring accurate compilation of monthly
pharmaceutical statistics return and pricing of expired stock. Support to
supervisor and colleagues within the George Sub-District, within scope of
practice. Ensure the provision of high-quality services measured by outcomes
of quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Honeyborne Tel No: (044) 814 - 1143
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All short-listed
candidates may undergo a technical competency (assessments/proficiency)
test. Pharmacist Assistants who do not comply with registration in either of the
advertised categories may apply for an advertised post on condition that
registration in the required category is obtained within 12 months. The
appointment will be subject to a 12-month probationary period. Should the
employee not meet the conditions of their appointment within the agreed
timeframes, the probationary period may be extended, or the employee may
be dismissed. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the
Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/194 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ULTRASOUND)/ SONOGRAPHER
GRADE 1-3 (PART TIME: 5/8TH)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R248 271 (5/8th) per annum
Grade 2: R289 962 (5/8th) per annum
Grade 3: R339 438 (5/8th) per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound radiography. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
114
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel
within the Sub District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
in word processing, data management and analysis. Ability to use or learn to
use systems eg clinicom, PHCIS Ability to work independently and in a team
with good interpersonal skills. Thorough knowledge of ante-natal-, ante-natal
Doppler-, paediatric-, gynaecology- and abdominal- ultrasound studies.
Completion of supplementary courses in diagnostic ultrasound and knowledge
and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at both undergraduate
and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced level
with the main focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G) imaging in
Stellenbosch Hospital. But including abdominal and other studies. Outreach
sonography services to clinics in the ecosystem and district as requested.
General care of patients as part of a Multi-Disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and
statistics. Supervise, train and assess colleagues eg midwives, doctors,
radiographers. Actively take part in CPD- program, as learner as well as In-
service training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Engelbrecht Tel No: (021) 808-6108
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals whom apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch Hospital for a period of
3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/195 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Directorate: Information Technology (Tygerberg Hospital: HIS Application
Centre)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Communication Skills, Organizational Skills, Technical and
IT Skills. Numerical and Financial Competence Analytical and Problem-Solving
Skills Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and Teams).
Information systems management skills. Analytical and problem-solving skills.
Excellent communication and people skills. Basic database development and
maintenance skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for Administrative Support by provide high-level administrative
support to managers, ensuring seamless office operations. Ensuring functional
Diary Management, organize appointments, meetings, and events, managing
time effectively and resolving scheduling conflicts. Coordinate meetings,
prepare agendas, take minutes, and distribute materials to stakeholders.
Travel and Accommodation Management: Organize travel arrangements,
including flight bookings, accommodation, and travel claims. Financial
Administration: Track expenditure, assist with purchase orders, and support
procurement activities. Human Resource and Contract Administration: Assist
with recruitment coordination, onboarding, and contract management.
Reporting and Presentations: Support the preparation of reports,
presentations, and other documentation. SharePoint Administration: Manage
documents and ensure correct access and organization within SharePoint.
115
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sibulele Dlakana Email: Sibulele.Dlakana@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/196 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT UNIT (IMU)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in information management and health
information systems. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication,
organisational and data management skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, SharePoint) and other hospital-based information systems.. Knowledge
of Medical Coding. Report compilation and analysis. Problem solving and
attention to detail. Understanding of Healthcare Compliance. Filing and record
keeping abilities.
DUTIES : Capture theatre procedures on Clinicom. Capturing and collection of clinical
data and the maintenance of databases. Assist the supervisor with report-
related queries and requests. Establish and maintain an efficient informatics
filing system and reception area. Enter monthly data reports on the Sinjani
Head Office System. Compile and faciliate the signing off of reporting forms by
relevant manager and CEO. Support supervisor with monthly reporting of data
to Provincial Office. Support during audit processes and provincial report filing.
Daily distribution of operational reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Ganief Tel No: (021) 404 2120
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/197 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Hospital Information Management.
Inherent requirement of the job: Be willing and able to perform standby and
after-hour duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Must have appropriate
knowledge and experience in Hospital Operations. Knowledge of relevant
patient administration software and systems. I.e. Clinical Business Intelligence,
SharePoint, FBU Studio, HECTIS, ECM, ECCR, SINJANI Have a high level of
computer literacy in MS Package. Must have excellent interpersonal and
communication skills. Have Problem solving and technical skills to deal with
complex IM challenges.
DUTIES : Providing user support and training to Hospital users on various health systems
and applications. Ensuring Hospital statistics are monitored and maintained for
all in-and-out patient activities. Supporting data quality initiatives to ensure
accurate and quality data is collected for the various FBU’s. Performing
monthly quality and folder audits. Providing support in maintaining IT hardware,
technology and network infrastructure at the Hospital. Providing general
administrative support and function as a effective team member of the
Information Management Unit at the Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cajada Tel No: (021) 402 6594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
116
POST 13/198 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate information management experience in a health
environment. Appropriate Clinicom experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills in MS Office. Good interpersonal and
communication skills, ability to work independently, and as part of a team,
ability to maintain confidentiality and problem-solving and conflict management
with good organisational skills. Official must have a good understanding of the
daily running and protocols of the information management department in a
health environment.
DUTIES : System administration and control of Information Systems. Do data quality
checks, folder audits and provide information management statistics. Render
IT support to the hospital. Assist in giving technical advice for purchasing of IT
equipment from Government tenders and control and administration of Ditcom
applications. Communicating and liaising with various stakeholders regarding
information management and IT issues or support. Provide office
administration to supervisor and the information management department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (021) 833 9445
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/199 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Laingsburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate practical
experience in a Financial / Administration related environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work after hours when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of BAS, LOGIS,
Clinicom and Accounts Receivable. Good organising, numerical and analytical
skills. Computer skills in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Patient fees billing administration Patient fees account administration Logis
payment administration and supply chain management requests Finance
Administration Ad hoc duties, such as relieving at switchboard and admissions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Bothma Tel No: (023) 814 - 2015/24
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/200 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management environment. Appropriate experience in LOGIS and the
EPS. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid B, EB/C1 driver’s license. Ability
to work in a physically demanding environment. Competencies
knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the LOGIS System, Asset Management
117
functions and functional experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic
purchasing system (EPS). Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good
communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration, such as inviting of quotes
on EPS, placing of orders, preparing quotes for Quotation Committee and
follow-up with suppliers. Asset Management to be performed in the Overstrand
Sub-district which includes proper management of assets pertaining to annual
asset count, updating asset register, disposals, capturing of relevant
documentation on LOGIS and keeping updated filling of all relevant
documentation. Monthly BAS and LOGIS reconciliation reporting. Receiving
services and preparing batches for payment. Ensure compliance to all relevant
laws and prescripts related to the Supply Chain. Handle all telephonic and
written queries from relevant suppliers and end users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 312 1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subject to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/201 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics, Mathematics Literacy and/or Accountancy as a passed subject
and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that
focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Supply Chain Management. Appropriate
experience in Procurement Process. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Must
have knowledge and experience of LOGIS and EPS. Knowledge and
experience of procurement (Acquisition). Computer literacy (MS Office: Word,
Excel, Outlook). Knowledge of Accounting Officers System and SCM
delegations of the department.
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration such as inviting of quotes
for supply of goods and services. Processing of requisitions on the Supply
Chain (LOGIS) system from the need to the order. Following up on orders and
communicating with suppliers. Assist with annual inventory stocktaking.
Communicate and draft minutes for the Quotation Committee on rotation.
Monthly SCM reporting to supervisor. Provide support to the supervisor and
assist within the Supply Chain Component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Erasmus Tel No: (044) 802-4560
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/202 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Overberg District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy (Ms Word and Excel).
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Good interpersonal
relations, communication and organizational skills. Knowledge of the Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Clearing Asset and Liabilities and Debt Account accounts transactions.
Drawing and capturing of Journals Capturing and processing of payments on
118
receipt of invoice. Compliance to the PFMA, NTR’s and Departmental Finance
Instructions and circulars. Administer and control Petty Cash payments.
Batching, filing and safekeeping of supporting documentation. All
administration support, within Finance Component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Lamohr Tel No: (028) 2145839
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/203 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Barrydale Clinic and Bredasdorp CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to travel within the sub district. Willingness to
support and to work at other clinics within the Sub-district, as well as on the
Mobile Clinic. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic Computer skills in MS
Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and
protocols of the Department of Health and Wellness, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Develop and implement basic patient care
plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Participate in infection prevention and
control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Overberg District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/204 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate cleaner/housekeeping
service experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Compulsory to work shifts,
weekends, public holidays and in other departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Supervisory skills and optimal utilisation of sub-ordinates.
Ability to perform routine structured tasks. Ability to adhere to safety standards.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the hospital.
Supervisory and performance management of housekeeping team.
Responsible for the provision and serving of meals and beverages to patients
and parents. Responsible for effective communication, overall control and
119
organising of housekeeping tasks in a Health Facility. Effective utilization of
resources (physical and financial). Handle and remove domestic and medical
waste. Control and issue linen stock as required. Application of the disciplinary
procedures and conflict resolutions Assist in performing ad-hoc duties within
the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Chenga Tel No: (021) 658 5436
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/205 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10/ Std 8 or equivalent qualification.
Experience: Appropriate experience with tasks performed in a workshop
environment. Appropriate work experience with Artisan Assistant related tasks.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime when requested.
Ability to do standby duty when required. Capability to do strenuous physical
labour. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
knowledge of carpentry, bricklaying, plastering, electrical, mechanical, light
current, Air-con & refrigeration, plumbing, painting, tiling and other Handyman
related functions. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Maintenance, installation and minor repairs of water reticulation systems.
Maintenance and unblocking sewer systems and minor repairs in all related
plumbing activities. Maintenance and minor, repairs to equipment and
machines in the mechanical field. Maintenance and minor repairs and
installations of equipment and electrical items. Maintenance and minor repairs
and manufacture of all carpentry work. Maintenance and minor repairs in the
light current field. Maintenance and minor repairs of buildings and repairs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Jacobs Tel No: (021) 940 4540
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/206 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna/Bitou Sub District PHC Support and Outreach (Stationed in Knysna
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate handyman experience within a health environment.
Sound knowledge of mechanical, electrical equipment and / or plumbing
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to do strenuous physical
labour. A valid Code B/EB driver’s license and willingness to travel within the
sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to optimally utilise
allocated resources such as materials, tools and equipment. Be conversant
with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Ability to plan own work activities, work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Maintenance and repair work during normal and after hours (as necessary).
Maintain and repair plant equipment, furniture, fixtures and fittings mechanical.
Do minor electrical and plumbing repairs at clinics and hospital. Assist in
preventative maintenance procedures, including standby generators. Obtain
quotations on material needed to complete requisitions, order and control of
materials. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Assist
with repairs and installations for special projects, supervise and give in service
training to co-workers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Terblanche Tel No: (044) 302-8484
120
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/207 : PLASTER OF PARIS ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9/Std 7. Experience: Appropriate experience in the application
and removal of plaster of Paris. Inherent requirements of the job: Scheduled
working hours as per agreement. Willingness to work overtime when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work with patients and multi-
disciplinary team. Good interpersonal, communication and writing skills, time
management. Ability to function as part of a team or work independently.
Honest, patient, hardworking and reliable.
DUTIES : Render an effective support service to medical and nursing staff in the
application and removal of plaster of Paris. Cleaning of wounds. Effective and
economical utilisation of resources. Render an effective support service to the
Orthopaedic clinic.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377 4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. As directed by
the Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that
further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and previous
employment. It will be expected of shortlisted candidates to be available at the
venue on the time and date as determined by the Department and bring along
recently (not older than 6 months) certified copies of your Identity Document
(ID). Failure to adhere to the aforementioned may lead to his/her application
being disqualified and not further considered.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/208 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of maintenance and repairs of electrical components.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and apply the requirements of
the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act, as well as read, write
and follow written instructions including manuals and written procedures. Ability
to optimally utilise allocated resources such as tools and materials and be
skilled in the usage of a variety of tools. Ability to work independently and as
part of a team. Ability to adhere to safety standards. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willing to work overtime if requested. Must be physically able to
perform the duties required.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance with maintenance and repairs of electrical
fixtures and components, including projects, installations and alterations, as
well as other areas when needed. Assist and perform preventative
maintenance on plant and equipment. Efficiently and effectively stock control.
Efficiently and effectively controlled equipment, tools and working area. An
effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1199
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
121
POST 13/209 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of maintenance and repairs of electrical components.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and apply the requirements of
the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act, as well as read, write
and follow written instructions including manuals and written procedures. Ability
to optimally utilise allocated resources such as tools and materials and be
skilled in the usage of a variety of tools. Ability to work independently and as
part of a team. Ability to adhere to safety standards. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willing to work overtime if requested. Must be physically able to
perform the duties required.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance with maintenance and repairs of electrical
fixtures and components, including projects, installations and alterations, as
well as other areas when needed. Assist and perform preventative
maintenance on plant and equipment. Efficiently and effectively stock control.
Efficiently and effectively controlled equipment, tools and working area. An
effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1199
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/210 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (MATERNITY WARD L1)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20’ years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and
weekends when required. Willingness to work overtime if needed. Willingness
to rotate to other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and insight into protocols and policies pertaining to nursing
practices in a hospital setting. Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control
standards.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living. To observe patients’ behaviour and
actions in wards and in seclusion and provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Maintain documentation and communication. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively
participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K La Grange Tel No: (021) 659 5594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected tp a practical/written and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
122
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/211 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE) (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate driving experience including transportation of employees and
delivery of goods. Inherent requirements of the job: Code (B/EB/C1) driver’s
license. Good physical health. Must be prepared to work overtime and perform
standby duties on short notice (after hours. weekends and public holidays).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of (NDT) Transport Circular
GMT U2 13B of 2019/2020 dated 26/9/2019 Ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised. Good
interpersonal and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Transport of goods, post and Personnel. Maintenance of prescribed logbooks,
trip authorities and administrative duties of driving. Inspection, storage,
maintenance, and safe handling of vehicle. Standby and work overtime when
required. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TM De Wet Tel No: (028) 313 5228
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/212 : CLEANER (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Michael Mapongwana CDC (X2 Posts)
Khayelitsha CHC (X1 Post)
Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience at a Health facility or hospital. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and supplies.
Perform overtime, work shifts, public holidays and night duty. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work effectively in a team, independently and
unsupervised, accepting accountability and responsibility. Able to handle
conflict and the ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : General cleaning and maintenance of cleaning equipment. Dust, sweeping,
polish, scrub and mop floors, passages, furniture, empty dustbins and sort
soiled linen according to correct cleaning procedures. Effective use of cleaning
agents and stock. Responsible for general hygienic and safe environment.
Handling cleaning equipment. Assist with the offloading and unpacking of stock
and perform relief duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mpu, Thembisile.Mpu@westerncape.gov.za Tel No: (021) 361-3353
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
POST 13/213 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INTERNAL MEDICINE) (20
SESSIONS)
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
123
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective
leadership and interpersonal skills. Appropriate and sufficient clinical
experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB. Knowledge and practical
skills in Internal Medicine and Psychiatry is essential.
DUTIES : Provision of safe medical care to patients in the Acute Medical Admissions and
Emergency Unit, High Care Unit, Inpatient medical wards and Medical
Outpatients department at Tygerberg Hospital and associated training
hospitals. Supervise and support medical interns and medical officers providing
medical care on the service platform. Assist with the training of interns, medical
students, nursing staff and paramedics. Involvement in research/audits relating
to Internal Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Schrueder Tel No: (021) 938-5732
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
must make themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as
decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your application
on or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Kindly note that technical support is only available from Monday
to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any difficulties with your
online application you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
Competency Assessment tools. The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme before they may be
appointed into this post. The purpose of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme, which is a public service specific training programme applicable
to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS
members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS.
The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours (15
days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
124
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/214 : DIRECTOR: PROPERTY ACQUISITION REF NO: DOI 53/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree (NQF 7) or higher qualification as recognised by SAQA;
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Middle/Senior Management level.
Completion of Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management Service)
upon appointment. Recommendations: A valid driving licence/ Alternative
mode of transport for a person with disabilities; Post graduate qualification;
Property acquisition experience. Competencies: Extensive knowledge and
interpretation of applicable policies and procedures; Knowledge of the
following: Management Principles; Public Service procedures; HRM
processes; Labour relations; Empowerment (SMME, Broad based BEE,
Women and Disability); Capacity Building; Community facilitation; Core
Competencies: Strategic Capability and leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management
and Change Management; Skills: Interpret and apply relevant policies and
procedures; Problem solving skills; Sound budgeting skills; Facilitation and
presentation skills.
DUTIES : Strategic capability and leadership; Change Management; Project and
Programme Management; Manage the following: Acquisition of immovable
property; The acquisition of immovable assets as per the approved Acquisition
Plans as well as adhoc approved request; Donation of immovable assets; land
exchanges; The transfer of immovable assets in terms of the principle of
assets following functions; Ensure efficient and effective oversight and
management for all financial resources/aspects of the Directorate and all
performance requirements related to the PFMA and corporate governance;
Management of the human resources of the Directorate to achieve the
predetermined performance indicators and service delivery imperatives,
motivated, competent, appreciated and performance orientated staff and
sound labour relations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Brett Blackburn Tel No: (021) 483 5183
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/215 : CHIEF TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER: PRODUCTION GRADE A REF
NO: DOI 38/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488 - R1 250 907 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R1 323 267 - R2 027 811 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or
equivalent qualification; A minimum of 6-years post qualification experience in
Town and Regional Planning; Compulsory registration with SACPLAN as a
Professional Town and Regional Planner; A valid Code B driving licence.
Recommendation: Proven working experience in the following: Town, regional
planning, and stakeholder management; Working with Municipalities;
Programme and Project Management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: National Housing Code, Planning and Environmental regulatory
requirements as well as procurement and tendering processes; Built
environment; Town and Regional Planning legal compliance; Human
Settlements and Local Government delivery issues; Financial and Human
Resource Management. Proven skills in the following: Proven computer
literacy in Arc Map GIS / Arc View GIS, AutoCAD, and MS Office packages;
Good communication skills (written and verbal); Excellent report writing;
Project management and administration; Problem-solving; Negotiation and
125
listening; Strategic planning, organizing, and people management; Customer
focus and responsiveness; Ability to operate at a strategic level and manage
engagements with stakeholders and partners; Ability to communicate at all
levels across sectors; Ability to advice and support government departments
and municipalities on human settlement planning initiatives/directions.
DUTIES : Provide strategic support towards the improvement of living conditions of
people living in Informal Settlements; Facilitate Provincial/Municipal and
general stakeholder management support to ensure transversal alignment on
the Informal Settlement interventions and projects; Provide Provincial and
Municipal support through coordination and capacity-building initiatives on
technical issues around Human Settlements; Support, and advise Municipal to
develop and review pipelines for Human Settlements; Influence municipal
planning through the sectoral plan (SDF, IDP & HSP).
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Alli Tel No: (021) 483 4145
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/216 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REPORTING COORDINATION AND PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 30/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years management level experience.
Recommendation: An appropriate post graduate qualification; Public sector
management level experience in Human Resource, Finance, Monitoring
Reporting, Roads Branch or Communications; Knowledge of Infrastructure
reporting and Roads Branch related development; Willingness to travel as
required. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies,
legislation, guidelines, standards and procedures; Project Management; Skills
Development frameworks; Coordination of people and resources; Formal
Training. Skills needed: Communication (written and verbal); Numeracy;
Literacy; Driving; Typing; Computer Literacy; Language.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the resources responsible for the achievement of
component goals; Ensure compliance with relevant legislative, statutory,
regulatory and supervisory requirements towards the achievement of
component projects and goals; Manage the professional development and
candidate programme within the roads Branch; Ensure efficient and effective
oversight and management for all financial resources/aspects of the Sub
directorate and all performance requirements as related to the PFMA and
corporate governance; Manage information (data, knowledge, wisdom) by
applying tools and technologies to inform decision-making in government
operations, produce reports, enhance service delivery, support transparency,
support integration and collaboration across departments government
spheres; People management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Buys at (082) 730 7792
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
126
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/217 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR ROAD OWNERSHIP AND EXPROPRIATION REF NO:
DOI 46/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years management level experience.
Recommendation: Recent and relevant experience in the leading of the
following processes: permanent and temporary land expropriation and
acquisition, survey and transfer of road reserve land, alienate/cancel caveats
of superfluous road reserve land with a demonstrated sound understanding of
powers, delegations and responsibilities; Demonstration through experience of
legal and regulatory knowledge to support land expropriation and acquisition;
Understanding of the new Expropriation Act 13 of 2024; Proven track record
of: negotiation and stakeholder engagement; project and risk management;
contract and agreement management. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills needed: Numeracy;
Computer Literacy; Language skills; Project Management; Accounting,
Finance and Audit; Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Policy
implementation (Impact on system); Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation
and reporting; Presentation; Problem solving; Research.
DUTIES : Operational Management; Plan and manage the work of and account for the
overall performance of the Sub directorate; People Management; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Barker at 076 716 0984 / Melissa.Barker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
127
POST 13/218 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD
INVESTMENT PLANNING REF NO: DOI 44/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Civil Engineering Degree (B Eng/BSC (Eng); A minimum of 3 years post-
qualification engineering experience required; Compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B or higher driving licence.
Recommendation: Post-graduate qualification in Traffic Engineering, Transport
Planning, Economics or Business; Experience in the following: Transport
modelling; Coding and/or data management; Transport economics; Corridor
management/Arterial management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Transport modelling theory and software; Traffic analysis and
assessment of traffic studies and proposals; Transport planning legislation and
environment to include: National Land Transport Act (Act 5 of 2009); Spatial
Planning and Land Use Management Act (Act 16 of 2013); Road infrastructure
design with a particular focus on project identification and road planning;
Project evaluation and assessment in terms of: Economic Assessment; Multi-
Criteria Assessment; Corridor Management Strategies and Arterial
Management Plans; Data Management; Skills needed: Preparation of written
proposals and submissions; Written and verbal communication; Analytical;
Evidence-based decision making; Self-management to include planning and
organising; Customer focus and responsiveness; Conflict management;
Proven computer literacy; Innovation.
DUTIES : Development and evaluation of project proposals with and without model
assessment; Transport model management; Development and management
of transport model standard operating procedures; Development and
management of Road Investment Strategy; Development and management of
Corridor Management Strategies; Management of consultants and internal
projects; Liaison with various stakeholders in the transport infrastructure
planning environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Barker at 076 716 0984 or Melissa.Barker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/219 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION LEVEL): EDUCATION
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI 56/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 - R816 852 per annum
Grade B: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum
Grade C: R976 029 - R1 144 008 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per the
OSD prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification; A
minimum of 3 years post qualification Quantity Surveying experience;
Compulsory registration with the South African Council of Quantity Survey
Professionals (SACQSP) as a Professional Quantity Surveyor; A valid code B
(or higher) driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
128
Technical: Programme and project management; Quantity Survey principles
and methodologies; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Legal compliance; Technical report writing, Technical consulting;
creating high performance culture; Networking; Professional judgement.
Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical; Creativity; Self-
management; Financial management; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on buildings, structures or facilities; Co-
ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity surveying;
Ensure adherence to quantity determination standards; Provide quantity
surveying advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs; Ensure the
adoption of technical and quality strategies; Develop quantity surveying related
policies, methods and practices; Provide solutions on non-compliance on
quantity determination; Review the cost determinations of projects and
estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-professional
personnel; Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration;
Human capital development; Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity
surveyors and related technical and administrative personnel to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound quantity surveying principles
and code of practice; Supervise quantity surveying work and processes;
Administer performance management and development; Office administration
and budget planning; Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for
the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedure for procurement, SCM and personnel human resource
administration; Monitor and control expenditure; Report on expenditure and
service delivery; Research and development; Continuous professional
development according to council guidelines; Research/literature studies on
quantity survey to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
quantity survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Potgieter Tel No: (021) 483 4881
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/220 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN: PROCLAMATION AND ROAD
USE REF NO: DOI 42/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R551 493 per annum, (Salary will be determined based on post
registration experience as per OSD prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Engineering or relevant qualification; A
minimum of 6 years post qualification technical (Engineering) experience;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA)
as an Engineering Technician; A valid code B (or higher) driving license.
Recommendation: Public Sector experience/exposure; Demonstrated ability to
work independently and in a team; Sound understanding of the road
proclamation process and historic legislation that impacts the proclaimed road
records; Experience in the research of road proclamation information and the
preparation of consolidated technical responses to queries; Applicable
experience in transport infrastructure planning and design; Further studies or
courses; Strategic leadership and thinking capabilities. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Project management; Technical design and
129
analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report writing;
Technical consulting; Skills in the following: Problem solving and analysis;
Decision making; Team work; Creativity; Financial management; Customer
focus and responsiveness; Communication; Computer skills; Planning and
organising; People management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Engineers, Technologists and associates in field, workshop
and technical office activities; Ensure the promotion of safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology; and Ensure
quality assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize/make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage
administrative and related functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting process;
Compile and submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan; Ensure the development,
implementation and maintenance databases; and manage, supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; To liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Barker at 076 716 0984 or Melissa.Barker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/221 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI
36/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a Stakeholder Management
working environment; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Extensive working knowledge with
experience in the following: Relevant legislation, acts, policies, codes,
guidelines, standards, best practices, procedures, strategies and protocols;
Development of a departmental-wide stakeholder management state;
Stakeholder management environment; Media liaising; Latest trends in
communication products; Dispute and conflict resolution and problem-solving
management; Stakeholder management procedures and processes in the
Department. Proven skills in the following: Communication (written and verbal)
and report writing skills; Computer literacy in MS Office, Intranet and Internet;
Time management, planning, organising and networking skills; Conceptual,
interpretive, formulation and research skills; Dispute and conflict resolution
skills; Proven facilitation, recantation, interviewing and listening skills; Team
building, strong interpersonal, motivation and leadership skills. Proven
mentoring and coaching skills; Project management skills; Ability to interpret
relevant policies, strategies, standards, best practices, procedures, acts and
legislation; Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different back rounds; Abilit to work under pressure and meet tight deadlines;
Willingness to travel and to work Ion or irregular hours; Be innovative,
130
pragmatic, creative, self-motivated, committed, assertive and diplomatic; Be a
problem solver and team leader; Be accurate, responsible, reliable and a
diligent worker; Have a multi-disciplinary approach.
DUTIES : Establish relationships with key clients and business influences in the local
communities; Contribute to the development of a departmental-wide
stakeholder management strategy; Execute stakeholder management
research, analyse information and compile complex documents, reports and
submissions for the Department; Provide advice to senior management of the
Department and the Minister in terms of conflict situations; Provide logistical
support in terms of project profiling.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Giba Tel No: (021) 483 4987
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/222 : ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST: (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
PROCLAMATION AND ROAD USE REF NO: DOI 43/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 - R487 500 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R513 303 - R551 493 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grace C: R586 665 - R690 237 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering (B Tech) or relevant
qualification; Three years post qualification Engineering Technologist
experience; Compulsory registration with ECSA as an Engineering
Technologist; A valid code B driving license. Recommendation: Public Sector
experience focusing on Roads; Applicable experience in transport
infrastructure, roads planning and/or design; Experience with services within
the road reserve; Experience in the evaluation of traffic impacts on transport
infrastructure due to land use changes; Further studies or formal courses;
Experience and a sound understanding of technical matters across various
engineering design stages for multidiscipline projects. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Project management; Technical design and
analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Legal compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting;
Networking; Professional judgment; Skills needed: Decision making; Team
leadership; Creativity; Change management; Financial management;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal);
Computer skills; Planning and organising; People management. Problem
solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services: Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates in field, workshop and office activities; Promote safety standards in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology;
Solve broadly defined technological challenges through application of proven
techniques and procedures; Develop, maintain and manage current
technologies; and Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying
engineering principles. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile
and submit monthly and quarterly reports; Provide inputs to the operational
plan; and develop, implement and maintain databases; Research and
development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise; and to liaise with relevant boards/councils on engineering-related
matters.
131
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Fortuin at 082 670 4560
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/223 : EXPENDITURE ADMINISTRATOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
DOI 39/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Financial Accounting.
Recommendation: Advanced MS Excel experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: SCOA; Modified Cash Standard, MCS; Skills
needed: Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Interpersonal; Written and verbal
Communication skills; Decision making; Problem solving; Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Administer creditor accounts; Maintain payment process; Regulatory, policy,
governance frameworks and tactical advice; Operational management of the
Sub-component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Davids Tel No: (021) 483 4040
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/224 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HR AND GENERAL OFFICE SUPPORT
SERVICES (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 37/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
relevant administrative experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Willingness
to travel when required. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: PERSAL
salary system or similar, Public Service Act/ Regulations, various OSD’s;
Human Resource Policies and Resolutions and Agreements; Skills needed:
Planning and organising; Communication skills (written and verbal); Proven
computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook); Ability to
interpret policies and procedure manuals; Ability to identify irregularities in the
application of human resource policies and practices by means of analytical
132
and innovative thinking; Ability to work independently and apply own initiative
at times; Report writing and formulation; Conflict and diversity management.
DUTIES : Human Resource provisioning (establishment, recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfer, secretariat functions); Implement conditions of service
benefits; Termination of service; Recommend transactions on PERSAL
according to delegations; Performance management of all staff in the region;
Prepare reports on human resource issues and statistics; Supervise human
resources staff; Compile and coordinate human resource development and
EAP activities for the region through development of a Workplace Skills Plan
and its implementation; Provide guidance and assistance concerning
discipline, disputes and labour relations issues to managers and employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Kennedy Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/225 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROCLAMATION AND ROAD USE REF NO:
DOI 47/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience. Recommendation: A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply;
Willingness to occasionally travel away from headquarters for road inspections.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Roads Ordinance, 1976
(Ordinance 19 of 1976); Deeds Registries Act, 1937 (Act No47 of 1937); Deeds
Office and Surveyor General Investigations; Basic Research; Interpret and
apply applicable policy and legislation; Analysing of Maps; Proven computer
literacy MS Office Package; Good communication skills (written and verbal);
Report writing and formulation; Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Execute the processes to close, proclaim, de-proclaim, divert, define the
boundaries and alter the classification and widths of provincial roads; Draft
provincial notices, proclamations for advertising in the local press and
publication in the provincial gazette; Updating proclamation system, filing and
recordkeeping; Draft letters, memos and submissions to management; Liaise
with clients and municipalities on a regular basis; Conduct deeds office,
Surveyor general and servitude investigations; Compliance with legal
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Fredericks Tel No: (021) 483 2202
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
133
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/226 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DOI 49/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification (a certificate of completion should be
provided); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in rendering a support service to
management/ senior management. Recommendation: Working knowledge of
the relevant legislative and regulatory requirements pertaining to Supply Chain
Management; Experience in a Compliance, Supply Chain Management or
Governance environment. Competencies: Knowledge of advanced computer
skills (word processing and numerical); Verbal and written language skills;
Planning and organising; Professional telephone and email etiquette;
Assertiveness, tact and discretion; Conflict resolution, problem-solving and
decision-making.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and receptionist support to the manager by screening calls,
addressing inquiries, and maintaining confidentiality, while referring
stakeholders to the appropriate officials as needed; Ensure office equipment is
functioning properly, manage office supplies and refreshments, safeguard and
verify assets, and process invoices on time; Provide operational assistance by
performing advanced typing, drafting reports, monitoring submission
deadlines, and responding to stakeholder inquiries while collecting and
compiling required information for the manager; Coordinate the senior
manager's appointments, manage meeting logistics, record minutes, and track
action items, while prioritizing meetings based on urgency and importance;
Assist with administrative tasks such as managing leave requests, tracking
employee records, coordinating procurement, and preparing documents for
signatures and approvals, ensuring accuracy and completeness; Provide
financial and budget management support by tracking expenditure, assisting
with submissions, monitoring budget discrepancies, and recommending
necessary budget adjustments; Ensure efficient document flow and
compliance with policies, safeguard records, and compile reports, while
ensuring that all information is processed in accordance with relevant
legislation and policies and within required deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Sawall Tel No: (021) 483 5053
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/227 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: ACQUISITION AND
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI 85/2024 R1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 2 years relevant experience in a Supply Chain
Management environment. Recommendation: Working knowledge of Supply
134
Chain duties, and practices as well as the ability to capture data accurately,
operate computers and collect statistics; A valid code B (or higher) driving
license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Job knowledge; Legislative framework governing the Public
Service; Work procedures in terms of the working environment; Legislative and
regulatory requirements; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy;
Communication (written and verbal); Report writing, Problem solving;
Analytical; Planning and organising; Applied Strategic Thinking; Interpersonal
relations; Flexibility; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide contract administration services; Monitor contract compliance; Monitor
supplier performance according to the contract and service level agreement;
Supervisory function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Sawall Tel No: (021) 483 5053
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/228 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: GOVERNANCE AND DEMAND MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DOI 55/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification (a certificate of completion should be
provided); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in rendering a support service to
management/ senior management. Recommendation: Working knowledge of
the relevant legislative and regulatory requirements pertaining to Supply Chain
Management; Experience in a Compliance, Supply Chain Management or
Governance environment. Competencies: Knowledge of advanced computer
skills (word processing and numerical); Verbal and written language skills;
Planning and organising; Professional telephone and email etiquette;
Assertiveness, tact and discretion; Conflict resolution, problem-solving and
decision-making.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and receptionist support to the manager by screening calls,
addressing inquiries, and maintaining confidentiality, while referring
stakeholders to the appropriate officials as needed; Ensure office equipment is
functioning properly, manage office supplies and refreshments, safeguard and
verify assets, and process invoices on time; Provide operational assistance by
performing advanced typing, drafting reports, monitoring submission
deadlines, and responding to stakeholder inquiries while collecting and
compiling required information for the manager; Coordinate the senior
manager's appointments, manage meeting logistics, record minutes, and track
action items, while prioritizing meetings based on urgency and importance;
Assist with administrative tasks such as managing leave requests, tracking
employee records, coordinating procurement, and preparing documents for
signatures and approvals, ensuring accuracy and completeness; Provide
financial and budget management support by tracking expenditure, assisting
with submissions, monitoring budget discrepancies, and recommending
necessary budget adjustments; Ensure efficient document flow and
compliance with policies, safeguard records, and compile reports, while
ensuring that all information is processed in accordance with relevant
legislation and policies and within required deadlines.
135
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Jansen van Rensburg Tel No: (021) 831 8773
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/229 : ARTISAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): CENTRAL MECHANICAL WORKSHOP
(PAARL) REF NO: DOI 53/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 - R270 357 per annum, (Salary will be determined as per
OSD prescripts).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Diesel Mechanic); A valid driving license
(Code EC or higher). Recommendation: Working experience maintaining
diesel vehicles including earthmoving machines. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Mechanical work on construction plant and equipment and
vehicle (test); Maintain good interpersonal relations; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines; Verbal and written communication skills; Good
planning and problem-solving skills; Good time management skills.
DUTIES : Maintain, repair, rebuild and modify all vehicles, construction plant and
equipment to standard; Supervise Trade Worker Aid and Apprentice; Maintain
occupational Health and Safety standards; Technical skills such as analysing,
legal compliance and computer aid applications; Perform administrative duties
which include complete log forms and timesheets, initiate orders and writing
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jones Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/230 : OPERATOR: HEAVY EQUIPMENT - CENTRAL MECHANICAL WORKSHOP
(BELLVILLE) REF NO: DOI 32/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Junior certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience; A valid code EC driving license with a professional drivers
permit (PDP) is required. Recommendation: Relevant experience in operating
a forklift/ overhead cranes/ truck mounted crane. Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Loading, offloading and transporting (normal
and abnormal) of road construction plant and equipment such as graders,
loaders, rollers, sweepers, trucks, vans, busses; Written and verbal
136
communication skills; Mechanical work to assist Artisans in the workshop;
Draw up reports; Good interpersonal relations; Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines; Good planning and problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the transporting, loading and securing the road construction
plant and equipment in the correct way as prescribed, on the trailer; Supervise
Trade Worker Aid; Maintain occupational health and safety standards;
Responsible to see that the services are done on time and check for leakages/
wear and tear; Testing of all road construction plant on the test ground;
Emergency assistance at all times (local and at the field offices).
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Van Wyngaardt Tel No: (021) 483 5713
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/231 : FINANCE CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: DOI 40/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation:
Advance experience in MS Word and MS Excel. Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Financial Management; Public Finance
Management; Supply Chain Management; Skills needed: Proven computer
literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Perform Salary Administration and expenditure transactions; Execute Standard
Operating Procedures in relation to salary and expenditure; Report inability to
comply with prescribed requirements; Ensure conformity of PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Davids Tel No: (021) 483 4040
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
137
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/232 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ENATIS SYSTEM REF NO: WCMD 40/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management experience in an
eNaTIS Systems Management working environment.; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities
but have access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that
have a bearing on the line functions; National Road Traffic Act, 1996 (Act 93 of
1996); Western Cape Provincial Road Traffic Administration Act, 2012 (Act 6 of
2012); National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; National Traffic Information
System (eNaTIS); Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999, National
Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury Instructions. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Managerial; Leadership;
Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Policy Implementation (Impact on
system); Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation and reporting; Facilitation
and presentation; Problem-solving; Research; Interpretation; Planning;
Organising; Decision-making; Innovation; Interpersonal; Basic research;
Networking; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours
and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage the eNaTIS security environment; Manage eNaTIS support to the
Western Cape users; Manage eNaTIS training to the Western Cape users;
Communication with various clients / stakeholders; Plan and manage the work
of and account for the overall performance of the Sub-directorate; People
Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RW Barreiro Tel No: (021) 483 2061
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGISTRATION AND COMPLIANCE REF NO:
WCMD 32/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Public Transport
Management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. Note: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport
may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Latest advances
in public management theory and practices; Organisation development, human
capital management, institutional performance system and processes of
culture change social capital development; Modern system of governance and
administration; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South Africa public sector; Financial management; Public transport legal
and policy framework; Inter-governmental relations; Communication, media
management and public relations; Office management; Criminal procedure
Act; Anti-corruption and fraud legislation; Public Finance Management Act,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Skills needed: Research;
Analytical thinking; Financial Management; Project Management; Managerial;
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Problem solving;
Presentation; Alternative dispute resolution, conflict resolution and mediation;
Ability to communicate with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Sound organisational skills; Good people skills; Aptitude to work
138
with computers; Interpersonal relations; Commitment and integrity; Customer
service orientation; Diversity Management; Team Leadership; Self-
Management and motivation; In-depth knowledge and understanding of
relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures; Ability to act with fact
and discretion; Good grooming and presentation; High level of reliability; Good
telephone etiquette / team player.
DUTIES : Assist with the following: Management of registration and deregistration of
primary minibus taxi associations and their members; Monitoring compliance
of primary minibus taxi associations and their members; Management of the
transport relations function; Management of the customer relations function in
the Directorate Provincial transport Registration; People management,
empowerment and development; Engage with stakeholders/role-players in the
minibus taxi public transport industry; Engage with stakeholder/s on legislation
and policy matters; Assist with resolving queries and disputes arising from
Primary minibus taxi associations and their members; Office management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Ndolvu Tel No: (021) 483 0260
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/234 : ASSESSOR: ASSESSMENT REF NO: WCMD 33/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in rendering executive support
functions to top management. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Relevant software
packages; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Public service procedures,
processes and systems; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Criminal procedure Act; Anti-corruption and fraud
legislation. Skills needed: Research; Analytical thinking; Financial
Management; Project Management; Managerial; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Problem Solving; Presentation; Conflict resolution;
Sound organisational; Interpersonal Relations; Commitment and Integrity;
Customer service orientation; Diversity Management; Team leadership; Self-
Management and motivation; In-depth knowledge and understanding of
relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures; Ability to act with fact
and discretion; Good grooming and presentation; High level of reliability; Good
telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : To conduct inquiries in terms of the Western Cape Road Transportation Act,
Amendment Law (8 of 1996); Handle all enquiries queries, complaints,
accusations and allegations; Write documents, correspondence and reports;
Update and maintain data on system; Liaise with stakeholders and role-players
in the minibus taxi industry; Notifying complainants and respondents on
registrars’ decisions.
ENQUIRIES : Abdoesalaam.Isaacs@westerncape.gov.za/ Ms E Searle Tel No: (021) 483
0271
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/235 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ACQUISITION
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: WCMD 37/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B Degree/Advanced Diploma (equivalent qualification or
higher); A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience in a Supply Chain
Management environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
139
following: Procurement and provisioning services; Procurement and tendering
processes; Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act; Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act and its associated regulations, practice
notes, circulars; Public Service Ant-corruption Strategy; Supply Chain
Management Guide to Accounting Officers and Authorities; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, financial delegations and best practice in the Public Service;
Relevant delegation frameworks, service level agreements, supplier
management, contract management, strategic sourcing, departmental policies
and procedures, Government financial systems; Public sector supply chain
management models and processes; Strategic sourcing process across broad
range of commodities in a Goods and Services environment; Mobility
procurement market; Contract management, including legal aspects in supply
chain management and ability to draft heads of terms and input to SLA
negotiations; Supply chain management AOS, Delegations. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Time Management;
Planning; Organising; Problem-solving; Dispute Resolution; Conflict
Management; Report-writing; Record Keeping; Analytical; Interpersonal
Relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to use
MS Office software for analysis and reporting; Ability to use supply chain
software (e.g. Ariba, LOGIS, ITender, etc.); Ability to work under pressure;
Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review and execute the bidding process in the department;
Coordinate, review, and compile the list of prospective providers for quotations;
Coordinate review, and source quotations from database according to the
threshold values determined by National Treasury; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moodley Tel No: (021) 483 8970
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (GOVERNANCE)
REF NO: WCMD 38/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B Degree/Advanced Diploma (equivalent qualification or
higher); A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience in a Supply Chain
Management environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Procurement and provisioning services; Procurement and tendering
processes; Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act; Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act and its associated regulations, practice
notes, circulars; Public Service Ant-corruption Strategy; Supply Chain
Management Guide to Accounting Officers and Authorities; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, financial delegations and best practice in the Public Service;
Relevant delegation frameworks, service level agreements, supplier
management, contract management, strategic sourcing, departmental policies
and procedures, Government financial systems; Public sector supply chain
management models and processes; Strategic sourcing process across broad
range of commodities in a Goods and Services environment; Mobility
procurement market; Contract management, including legal aspects in supply
chain management and ability to draft heads of terms and input to SLA
negotiations; Supply chain management AOS, Delegations. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Time Management;
Planning; Organising; Problem-solving; Dispute Resolution; Conflict
Management; Report-writing; Record Keeping; Analytical; Interpersonal
Relations; flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of figures; Ability to use MS
Office software for analysis and reporting; Ability to use supply chain software
(e.g. Ariba, LOGIS, ITender, etc.); Ability to work under pressure; Willingness
to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
140
DUTIES : Compliance Management; Contract Management; Supplier evaluation and
selection; Risk assessment and mitigation; Stakeholder engagement;
Reporting and analysis; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moodley Tel No: (021) 483 8970
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/237 : PRINCIPAL ROAD SAFETY OFFICER: CENTRAL KAROO (LAINGSBURG)
REF NO: WCMD 24/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management and Social Science; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a road
safety management working environment or related fields.; A Valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply .Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning
and execution of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform
road users of traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of
products and services to a variety of target groups; Planning of: Strategy
planning process; Project management process; Strategic thinking process;
Performance management process; General support systems; Skills needed:
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Ability to
work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight
deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Render support with the planning and execution of road safety interventions;
Accounting for progress and performance; Render support to achieve road
safety targets in the Central Karoo Region in accordance with set standards to
enhance service delivery; Competent stewardship.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Luwaca Tel No: (021) 483 9519
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/238 : PRINCIPAL ROAD SAFETY OFFICER: WEST COAST REF NO: WCMD
25/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management and Social Science; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a road
safety management working environment or related fields.; A Valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning
and execution of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform
road users of traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of
products and services to a variety of target groups; Planning of: Strategy
planning process; Project management process; Strategic thinking process;
Performance management process; General support systems; Skills needed:
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Ability to
work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight
deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Render support with the planning and execution of road safety interventions in
the West Coast Region; Accounting for progress and performance; Render
support to achieve road safety targets in the West Coast Region in accordance
with set standards to enhance service delivery; Competent stewardship.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Luwaca Tel No: (021) 483 9519
141
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/239 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LOSSES REF NO: WCMD 30/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification; A minimum of 3 years management experience in rendering
support functions to top management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Relevant
supervisory experience in a government motor transport working environment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics;
Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Working procedures in
terms of the working environment; National, Provincial policies, prescripts and
practices regarding financial matters, especially the PFMA; Human Resource
Management and Development; Legal processes regarding accidents;
Insurance claims and related aspects; Labour Relations Act and directives;
Instructions and financial Delegations pertaining to the Public Finance
management Act, 1999, the national Treasury regulations and the Western
Cape Provincial Treasury directives. Skills needed: Management; Planning
and organisational; Ability to interpret and apply policy; Supervisory skill;
Written and verbal communication; Computer literacy in (MS Office) and
database management.
DUTIES : Perform Generic Human Resource Management; Fleet Risk Management;
Manage recovery of GMT Losses from client department in terms of GMT’s
Fleet Risk Management Policy and noncompliance to prescripts; Manage of
GMT losses and claims; Legal interaction and case administration; Perform
support services; Perform generic financial management support; Co-ordinate
the use of systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Jacobs Tel No: (021) 467 4731
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/240 : TRANSPORT RELATIONS OFFICER: REGISTRATION AND COMPLIANCE
REF NO: WCMD 36/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (or higher qualification); A
minimum of 1-year administrative support experience in operating licensing
administration working environment; A valid code B driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Working knowledge of the
National Land Transport Act (2009) and National Transport Regulations.
Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Transport legislation and policies;
Communication, media management public relations; Inter-governmental
relations; Relations, public participation and public transport office
administration; Minibus taxi industry; Criminal Procedure Act; Anti-Corruption
and Fraud Legislation; Relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures.
Skills needed: Research; Analytical thinking; Financial Management; Project
Management; Managerial; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Problem Solving; Presentation; Public speaking; Conflict
resolution; Sound organisational; Good people skills; Interpersonal relations;
Commitment and integrity; Customer service orientation; Diversity
Management; Team leadership; Self-Management and motivation; Ability to act
with fact and discretion; Good Grooming and Presentation; High level of
reliability; Good telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Hearings and meetings; Capacitate minibus taxi industry; Investigation and
mediation; Monitor compliance; General administrative duties; Keep and
update registration records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 0252
142
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/241 : TECHNICAL ASSISTANT: REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE COORDINATION
REF NO: WCMD 44/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : NTC3 (Qualified Motor Mechanic or Panel Beater); A minimum of 6 years
practical work experience in fleet management environment with regards to
mechanical and/or vehicle body repairs; A valid Code C1 driving licence and a
prdp. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Mechanical workings of
vehicles, panel beating and spray painting, vehicle inspection to determine
problem; Legislative framework governing the Public Service; National Road
Traffic Act (93 of 1996) as amended. Skills needed: Computer Literacy;
Planning and Organising; Working with people; Good verbal and written
communication; Work under pressure, analytical thinking, problem-solving
skills and good negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Attend to (drivable) vehicles booked in at GMT by client departments for repairs
and maintenance; Diagnose mechanical faults on government vehicles booked
in at GMT; Request approval for a “vehicle dealership diagnostics” or a “strip
and quote”; Scrutinise and approve the Request for Quotes (RFQ); Scrutinise
quotes received and make a recommendation; Work in progress inspections at
VRS premises (Mechanical); While the GMT approved work is being done by
the VRS, GMT receives a “revised quote for additional work” (via the GMT
CCC) to be evaluated and approved or declined (Mechanical); Work completed
by VRS, vehicle collected by GMT Driver, and back at GMT RMC(Mechanical);
Quality assurance and sign-off (Mechanical); Complaints raised by client
departments due to poor quality repairs (Mechanical); Compile vehicle
inspection/assessment forms and RFQ (Request for Quotes) process;
Scrutinise and approve the Request for Quotes (RFQ) (Vehicle Body Repairs);
Scrutinise quotes received and make a recommendation (Vehicle Body
Repairs); Work in progress inspections at VRS premises (Vehicle Body
Repairs); While the GMT approved work is being done by the VRS, GMT
receives a “revised quote for additional work” (via the GMT CCC) to be
evaluated and approved or declined; Quality assurance and sign-off;
Complaints raised by client departments due to poor quality repairs (vehicle
body repairs); Opinion required if the 3rd party vehicle damage is “fair and
reasonable” (vehicle body repairs); Perform vehicle asset inspections; Assist
with vehicle marking and GMT Toll Free number stickers; Prepare vehicles for
GMT auction by means of compiling TV6/28 Vehicle Condition Reports; GMT
Vehicle Related Supplier Performance Control (VRSPC) request that the VRS
premises be inspected for compliance; GMT VIP vehicle support service;
General administrative functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Tyman Tel No: (021) 467 4756
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/242 : ROAD SAFETY OFFICER: METRO (EAST/NORTH) REF NO: WCMD
26/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher) in Education, Media and Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management or Social Science; A minimum of 1 year experience in road safety
management working environment or related fields; A valid code B driving
license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have
reasonable access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge in
the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning and execution
of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform road users of
traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of products and
services to a variety of target groups; Strategy planning process; Project
management process; Strategic thinking process; Performance management
process; General support systems. Skills needed: Numeracy and literacy;
143
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Planning; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing;
Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet
tight deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Render support with the planning and execution of road safety interventions in
the Metro North Region; Render support with the hosting of road safety
interventions in the Metro North Region and provide feedback and solutions to
improve service delivery; Accounting for progress and performance;
Competent stewardship.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Solomons Tel No: (021) 483 6975
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/243 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT REF
NO: WCMD 31/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year practical experience in handling traffic
offences; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Recommendation: Relevant practical experience in handling traffic
offences and summonses. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Clerical
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and
collecting statistics; Legislative framework governing the Public Service;
Working procedures in terms of the working environment; National, Provincial
policies, prescripts and practices regarding financial matters, especially the
PFMA; Road Traffic Act, AARTO Act; Traffic Offence Websites such as pay City,
PayMyFines, AARTO; Labour Relations Act and directives; Traffic Court
procedures; instructions and financial delegations pertaining to the Public
Finance Management Act, 1999, The National Treasury regulations and the
Western Cape Provincial Treasury directives. Skills needed: Planning and
organisational; Written and verbal communication; Ability to interpret and apply
policy; Computer literacy in MS Office and database management.
DUTIES : As the appointed GMT Fleet proxy: Co-ordinate the registration of traffic Fines
on the Fleetman system; Monitor the Fleetman system daily for captured driver
details and initiate the electronic forwarding thereof to the Municipalities and /
or Traffic Management Technologies (TMT); Coordinate summonses issued in
the name of GMT’s; Represent GMT Fleet Proxy in traffic court throughout the
Western Cape; Manage “sms” notifications addressed to the GMT Fleet Proxy
to report to TMT/ Municipalities; Management of warrant of arrest for GMT Fleet
Proxy; Perform general administration duties; Co-ordinate the use of systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Jacobs Tel No: (021) 467 4731
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/244 : CUSTOMER RELATIONS OFFICER: WALK-IN-CENTRE (VANGATE) REF
NO: WCMD 34/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant administrative support experience
in operating licensing administration working environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Public management theory and practices;
Organisation development, human capital management, institutional
performance system and processes of culture change social capital
development; Modern system of governance and administration;
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South Africa
public sector; Financial management; Customer / Client relations; Conflict
management; Public Transport; The National Land Transport Amendment Act
23 of 2023 and regulations; policies and guidelines that regulates and governs
business process of the department; Relevant legislation, policies, prescripts
144
and procedures. Skills needed: Financial Management; Computer Literacy;
Written and verbal communication; Problem solving; Presentation; Conflict
resolution; Sound organizational; Good people; Aptitude to work with
computers; Interpersonal Relations; Commitment and Integrity; Customer
service orientation; Diversity Management; Team leadership; Self-
Management and motivation; Ability to act with fact and discretion; Good
grooming and presentation; High level of reliability; Good telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Customer Relations Management; Enquiries- To provide an effective and
efficient client service; Payment Management; Service delivery; Systems
knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Wilmot Tel No: (021) 483 0214
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/245 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: TRANSPORT REGULATIONS REF NO: WCMD
34/2024 R1
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures; Office Administration; Database
Management; Information and Records Management; Procurement
processes; Basic financial administration; Understand the functioning, systems
and processes of government; General information support systems such as
BAS and MYTRACK. Skills in the following: Language; Computer Literacy;
Sound Organisational; Good People; Written Communication; Client Liaison
and Networking; Report Writing; Research; Problem Solving; Good telephone
etiquette; High level of reliability; Ability to communicate well with people at
different levels and from different backgrounds; Ability to act with tact and
discretion; Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations; Good
grooming and presentation; Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director;
Renders administrative support services; Provides support to Chief Director
regarding meetings; Supports the Chief Director with the administration of the
Chief Director’s budget; Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Adv G Reed Tel No: (021) 483 0213
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/246 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSESSMENT REF NO: WCMD 29/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation:
Administrative experience. Competencies: A good understanding of the
following: Public management theory and practices; Organisation
development, human capital management, institutional performance system
and processes of culture change social capital development; Modern system
of governance and administration; Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South Africa public sector; Financial
management; Customer / Client relations; Conflict management; Public
transport; Public Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements. Skills needed: Research; Analytical thinking; Financial
Management; Project Management; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Problem Solving; Presentation; Conflict resolution; Mediation;
Ability to communicate with people at different levels and from different
145
backgrounds; Sound organisational skills; Good people skills; Aptitude to work
with computers.
DUTIES : Render professional and general admin support to all sections when required;
Handle all queries and complaints in respect of the relevant regulatory and
legislative processes; Update and maintain relevant systems data; Assist with
the processing of applications for registration of minibus taxi associations,
members and non-members; Notifying applicants on provincial taxi registrar
decisions; Dealing with all correspondence; Draft agendas, minutes and
reports of meetings; Process claims, trip authorities and other requisite
logistical arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 0252
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 13/247 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO.
POCS 06/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid code B (or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: Working knowledge of the following: ISO 31000: 2018 - Risk
Management, ISO 45001: 2018; Occupational Health and Safety, SAMTRAC
Business Continuity Management ISO 22301 and safety and security risk
management. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Safety and security
related legislation, standards and regulations (understanding and
interpretation); Technical knowledge of safety and security risk management
processes; Applied strategic thinking; Writing and reporting; Research and
analysing; Creative thinking; Problem-solving decision making. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work independently and as
part of team.
DUTIES : Influence safety and security governance within the WCG institutions; Support
the implementation of ISO aligned safety and security methodologies for
people, processes and technology within client departments (conduct safety
and security risk assessments and investigations); To embed a positive safety
and security culture within facilities; Advise departments in terms of
Occupational Health and Safety Compliance; Contribute towards sound human
resource and budget practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Schumann Tel No: (021) 483-4061
146
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
must make themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as
decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your application
on or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Kindly note that technical support is only available from Monday
to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any difficulties with your
online application you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
Competency Assessment tools. The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme before they may be
appointed into this post. The purpose of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme, which is a public service specific training programme applicable
to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS
members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS.
The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours (15
days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/248 : DIRECTOR: TRAINING REF NO: DOTP 37/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of The Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or higher
qualification as recognised by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years relevant
middle/senior management level experience. Recommendations: Post
graduate degree and academic background and/or experience would be to
your advantage. Competencies: Proven working knowledge and experience of
the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices;
Human Capital Development; Information Systems; Core Competencies:
Strategic Capability and leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management and Change
Management; Skills: Partnership Management; Change Management;
Knowledge Management; The skills required of a high level in-house advisor;
Strong conceptual and formulation skills; Strong leadership skills with specific
reference to the ability to display thought leadership in complex applications.
DUTIES : Strategic management, advice and guidance in respect of the following
functional areas: Curriculum development and quality assurance; Functional,
transversal and management and leadership training interventions;
Continuous optimisation, growth and innovation of the Provincial Training
Institute; Strategic Management; Change Management; People Management
and Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Louise Esterhuyse Tel No: (021) 483 4869
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
147
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/249 : SERVICE MANAGER: EDUCATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND
SPORT REF NO: DOTP 35/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree in Information Technology;
A minimum of 5 years’ experience in ICT management of which 3 years must
be management experience. Recommendation: Experience in digital
transformation planning and implementation. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Digital government environment; Business Process Re-engineering;
Business Systems Analysis; ICT Service Management; Enterprise systems
development; Client relationship Management; ICT project Management;
Applicable legislation such as the PFMA, Public Service Act and Regulations,
SITA Act and Regulations, Access to Information Act, Telecommunications Act,
Electronic Communications and Transactions Act; Skills needed: Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication; Analytical
and problem-solving; Strategic thinking and planning; Presentation and
workshop facilitation; Negotiation and conflict management; Project
management.
DUTIES : Development, management of and reporting on a team of professionals
rendering services to the client department; Guide the development of
departmental IT plans including capability mapping; Management and
maintenance of Applications Portfolio Management Strategy roadmap and
inventory; Strategic alignment and stakeholder engagement across all spheres
of government, particularly within the Department of Education; Monitor and
manage the analysis of business needs, user requirements, objectives and
goals for approved ICT programmes/projects; Co-ordinate business requires
for Broadband and the Enterprise network for Department of Education.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Benting Tel No: (021) 483 8941
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/250 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DOTP 36/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years internal audit supervisory/management experience (ASD Level).
Recommendation: Certified Internal Auditor (CIA)/Certified Information System
Auditor (CISA); A valid code B driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Audit practices; Strategic
planning and management; Engagement planning and execution; Reporting
and progress monitoring; Control objectives for information and related
frameworks (COBIT); Governance principles; Legislation, policies and
procedures. Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Analytical
thinking; Teamwork; Compute assisted audit techniques (CAATs); Teammate
audit software; Proven computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Develop risk based Rolling 3-year Strategic and 1 year operational ICT Internal
Audit Plan including resource allocation; Develop an engagement work
programme, ensuring qualitative engagement objectives and control adequacy
148
assessment was conducted and advance mechanism to test control
effectiveness were designed; Execute the engagement assignment reviewing
the following: IT General control review Application control review; Information
security assessments; Ensure quality on the entire audit process and delivery
of the operation plans in line with stringent deadlines; Preparation and
presentation of final report to executive management; Maintenance of good
client relations and effective communication of audit results; Effective
scheduling of staff and monitoring productivity levels; Manage client relations
at Accounting Officer level and liaison with key stakeholders such as the
Auditor General of South Africa.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Behardien Tel No: (021) 483
0884/Aneesa.Behardien@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/251 : FORENSIC CONSULTANT: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS (CLUSTER A)
REF NO: DOTP 30/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Commerce, Law, Auditing, Forensics; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience. Recommendation: A post graduate qualification in Commerce,
Law, Auditing, Forensics, BCom IT or Informatics; Experience in investigation
of fraud, theft and/or corruption within the public sector; A professional
designation relevant to the forensic profession (e.g. Certified Fraud Examiner
(CFE) or Certified Forensic Practitioners (CFP)); A valid driving licence (Code
B or higher). Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have
reasonable access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Legislation and regulations applicable to National and Provincial
government and policies and procedures relating to Provincial and Local
government; Fact-finding techniques and investigative procedures applicable
to forensic audit/investigations; Sound knowledge of ACL, IBM i2 Analysts
Notebook, Intella, or similar forensic IT tools; Sound knowledge of writing
scripts for queries to identify and detect possible incidents of fraud in data;
Collection, analyses and visualization of large datasets to draw appropriate
conclusions; Data analysis abilities; Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel and PowerPoint); Analysing, problem-solving and
fact-finding; Communication (written and verbal); Project management; Ability
to collect, analyse and visualise large datasets and draw appropriate
conclusions. Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Planning and execution of forensic investigations; Conducting investigation by
means of thorough fact finding and evidence retrieval within allocated
timeframes; Effective communication and feedback on progress related
matters in line with the investigation plan; Project managing multiple
investigations at the same time, prioritising each investigation based on priority
and quality assurance at all stages of the investigation; Drafting factual forensic
reports containing appropriate findings and recommendations and the follow-
up of recommendations; Testifying in disciplinary hearings and in criminal trials;
Performing fraud prevention and detection functions; Developing and
maintaining professional relationships with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Hansby Tel No: (021) 483 4593
149
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/252 : FORENSIC CONSULTANT: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS (CLUSTER B)
REF NO: DOTP 32/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Commerce, Law, Auditing, Forensics; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid driving licence (Code B or higher). Note: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport
may also apply. Recommendation: A post graduate qualification in Commerce,
Law, Auditing, Forensics; Experience in proactive forensics or fraud risk
management; A professional designation relevant to the forensic profession
(e.g. Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) or Certified Forensic Practitioners (CFP));
Experience in managing fraud and corruption risks within the public sector.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation and regulations
applicable to National, Provincial and Local government; Policies and
procedures relating to Provincial and Local government; Fraud risk
management strategies and fraud risk assessment techniques; National and
Provincial Government legislation, departmental policies and procedures;
Fraud Risk Management strategies and fraud risk assessment techniques;
Writing scripts for queries to identify and detect possible incidents of fraud in
data; Collection, analyses and visualization of large datasets to draw
appropriate conclusions; Data analysis abilities; Analysing and problem-
solving. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
and PowerPoint); Good communication (written and verbal); Ability to work
independently and as part of a team; Project management.
DUTIES : Manage and develop processes aimed at improving strategies for fraud
detection and prevention; Contribute to the development/maintenance and
implementation of the Western Cape Government Anti-Corruption Strategy,
Whistle blowing Policy and any relevant policies and/or strategies; Support the
managers: Proactive Forensics with the development and maintenance of the
departmental fraud prevention and implementation plans for thirteen provincial
departments, including monitoring progress with the implementation of agreed
projects as per the fraud prevention and implementation plans; Contribute
towards development of fraud and corruption awareness training content,
conduct training awareness sessions, and participate in other awareness
initiatives; Identify business areas where data analytics projects could be
conducted and assist in conducting these projects; Facilitate departmental
fraud risk assessments in line with the approved methodology and monitor
action plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Thaba Tel No: (021) 483 4701
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
150
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/253 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT
ADMIN SUPPORT REF NO: DOTP 31/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : 1–2-year post school qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Departmental operational systems and procedures (e.g. knowledge of relevant
software packages, computer programmes such as LOGIS); Relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures; Public Finance Management
Act financial delegations; Financial administration (budget, procurement,
SCM); Good corporate governance norms and standards; Skills needed:
Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication;
Basic information gathering (research); Financial administration; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Render advisory and administrative support services; Render supply chain
management support services; Render budget management support services;
Render asset management support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Percival Tel No: (021) 483 8682
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/254 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DOTP 34/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation: A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Relevant job knowledge; Written and verbal communication;
Interpersonal relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Proven computer literacy;
Planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide reception / front office
support; Provide supply chain clerical support services; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Percival Tel No: (021) 483 8682
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
151
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
must make themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as
decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your application
on or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Kindly note that technical support is only available from Monday
to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any difficulties with your
online application you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
Competency Assessment tools. The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme before they may be
appointed into this post. The purpose of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme, which is a public service specific training programme applicable
to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS
members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS.
The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours (15
days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/255 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: PT
08/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in accounting (NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA); At least 5
years’ middle or senior management experience and proven knowledge of
technical abilities on accounting practices. Recommendations: Valid driver’s
license or alternative mode of transport for people with disabilities; Knowledge
of the people management function; Post Graduate studies in accounting and
financial governance; Chartered Accountant; An aptitude for training and rolling
out the relevant reporting frameworks; Excellent networking abilities; Working
knowledge of Standards of GRAP and the Modified Cash Standard.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; Change management;
Communication: written and oral skills; Financial management; Knowledge
management; Project management.
DUTIES : Drive the application of accounting practice within departments and entities in
line with the latest applicable reporting frameworks; Compile and table annual
consolidated financial statements of the province; Manage the research and
issuing of best accounting practices; Manage technical assistance provided on
152
the interpretation of accounting standards and frameworks; Driving accounting
capacitation through training interventions on financial governance and
accounting frameworks; Improving the financial governance maturity within
departments through multi-disciplinary engagements; People and Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IG Smith Tel No: (021) 483-8223
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/256 : FINANCIAL ANALYST: FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REF NO: PT 07/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management, Financial Accounting or Management Accounting; A minimum of
3 years’ experience in accounting and governance environment; A valid code
B (or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: B Com degree with Internal audit, Risk management, Public
Administration or bachelor’s degree Law/LLB; Experience in financial
management in the local government sector. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Municipal Finance Management Act and relevant supporting
regulations; Project and financial management. Skills needed: Excel and
PowerPoint; Provision of credible research, analysis and report writing; Project
and financial management; Problem solving; Integrity and self-management;
Teamwork; Technical proficiency; Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : To provide assistance and support with the coordination and effective
implementation of the MFMA and related regulations; Provide assistance with
monitoring, evaluation, analysis and reporting on compliance with the MFMA
and supporting regulations; Provide assistance with monitoring, evaluation,
analysis and reporting on compliance with the MFMA and supporting
regulations; Coordinate and participate in Stakeholder engagements to
enhance compliance with the MFMA; Project Management i.t.o municipal
Financial Governance support initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Motingwe Tel No: (021) 483 6268
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/257 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PG INFRASTRUCTURE AND PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT (GROUP 1) REF NO: PT 36/2024 R1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Finance,
Commerce, Economics or Built Environment; A minimum of 5 years relevant
functional experience in monitoring infrastructure projects/programmes; A valid
code B (or higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Recommendation: A Project Management Certificate and/or Contract
Management training and/or Asset Management and/or Supply Chain
153
Management and infrastructure procurement experience/exposure.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, IDMS, FIDPM, cidb Regulations; Information systems (IRM);
Public service policies and procedures; Functioning of National/Provincial as
well as Local Government; Microsoft Office Applications; Financial
Management; Project Management; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), Division of Revenue Act (DoRA),
Government Immovable Asset Management Act (GIAMA), Western Cape Land
Administration Act, National Treasury Regulations, User Asset Management
Guidelines and Local Government Capital Asset Management Guidelines;
Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Research, report writing, organizing and planning; Analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Monitor Provincial Infrastructure Performance Management; Report on
Provincial Infrastructure Financial Management; Support Provincial
Infrastructure Planning Portfolio Management; Support Provincial
Infrastructure Projects/Programme; Support Infrastructure Capacity Building
Initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Breda at (021) 483 3803/Mr C September Tel No: (021) 483 6159
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/258 : EXPENDITURE ANALYST: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT) REF NO: PT 23/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advance Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Finance, Public Finance, Financial and/or Management Accounting, Auditing
or Economics; A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in a financial
management environment. Recommendation: Strong financial background in
Public Sector Finance. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial
norms and standards (PFMA, NTRs, Provincial Treasury Directives); DORA
and conditional grants allocation mechanisms; Medium-term Expenditure
framework (MTEF) budget process and procedures; Adjustments Budget
process and procedures; Public finance financial reporting mechanisms; Basic
Accounting System (Vulindlela Financial Management reporting system) and
its SCOA structures. Skills needed: Sound organisation and planning;
Computer literacy (MS Office, Web applications and Outlook); Communication
(written and verbal); Writing and reporting.
DUTIES : In-year monitoring (IYM) model: Compilation of the Consolidated Provincial
IYM model, monthly review and monitoring of expenditure, draft monthly /
quarterly narrative reports; Evaluate inputs of the rollover and revenue
retention process; Assist with the implementation and evaluation of inputs for
the adjustment budget and the main budget process; Render technical support
and training; Handle policy matters related to the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Arnold Tel No: (021) 483-4945
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
154
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/259 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: PT 49/2024
R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in financial
management; A minimum of 3 years relevant supervisory experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public service accounting
procedures, processes and systems; Performance management in general.
Skills needed: Accounting and Financial management skills; Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy; People management.
DUTIES : Monitoring and compiling financial reporting, including Interim Financial
Statements and Annual Financial Statements; Collection and recording of
revenue (banking and cashier functions); Management of the payment of
Compensation of Employees (COE), goods and services and transfers and
subsidies; Operationalise the debt management function; Conduct required
system maintenance (Basic Accounting System) and monitor and perform
month/year-end closure on the system in compliance with guidelines; People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Smit Tel No: (021) 483 3037
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
POST 13/260 : DATA COLLATOR: DATA COLLATING AND TECHNICAL EDITING REF NO:
PT 01/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Management, Information Technology or a relevant
field; A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in technical editing/
formatting of various publications, through database integration.
Recommendation: Experience in technical editing and formatting and excel.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical editing and formatting;
Database integration and co-ordination. Skills needed: Cognitive; Attention to
detail; Analytical; Communication (written and verbal); Proven computer
literacy (MS Office suite); Ability to liaise with diverse people; Aptitude for
numbers.
DUTIES : Consolidate and technically edit/format the Provincial Budget publications and
associated documentation. Liaise with departmental finance and planning staff
on the management of budget information; Consolidate and technically
edit/format municipal budget information, performance assessment reports, PT
municipal publications and working papers; Collect/consolidate and edit
155
technically/format PT publications which include: Annual Financial Statements,
Annual Performance Plan, MTBPS, Reviews, Annual Report, Manuals and
Assessment Reports; Knowledge and Information Management through
database co-ordination and integration; Specialised functions: Technically edit
miscellaneous documents; Set up databases and templates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 483 4433
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/261 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS (GEORGE)
REF NO: DSD 14/2025
SALARY : R477 564 - R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work)
that allows professional registration with the SACSSP; Registration with the
SACSSP as a Social Worker; A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Recommendation: A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Job related knowledge; Analytic, diagnostic, assessment tools,
evaluation methods and processes; Personnel Management; Supervision
Framework for Social Workers; Social Work legislation related to children;
Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Skills needed: Communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Organising and planning;
Project planning; Psycho social intervention; Report writing; Presentation and
facilitation; Analytical and problem-solving; Client orientation and customer
focus.
DUTIES : Ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes is rendered; Attend to any other matters that
could result in or stem from social instability in any form; Supervise employees:
156
Supervise and advise social workers, social auxiliary workers and volunteers
to ensure an effective social work service; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field; Supervise all the administrative functions
required in the unit and undertake the higher level administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April Tel No: (021) 763 6217
POST 13/262 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS REF NO: DSD
15/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO SOUTH)
SALARY : R477 564 - R561 378 per annum (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work)
that allows professional registration with the SACSSP; Registration with the
SACSSP as a Social Worker; A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Recommendation: A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Job related knowledge; Analytic, diagnostic, assessment tools,
evaluation methods and processes; Personnel Management; Supervision
Framework for Social Workers; Social Work legislation related to children;
Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Skills needed: Communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Organising and planning;
Project planning; Psycho social intervention; Report writing; Presentation and
facilitation; Analytical and problem-solving; Client orientation and customer
focus.
DUTIES : Ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes is rendered; Attend to any other matters that
could result in or stem from social instability in any form; Supervise employees:
Supervise and advise social workers, social auxiliary workers and volunteers
to ensure an effective social work service; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field; Supervise all the administrative functions
required in the unit and undertake the higher level administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Brink Tel No: (021) 834 7000
POST 13/263 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS
(KHAYELITSHA) REF NO: DSD 18/2025
SALARY : R477 564 - R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work)
that allows professional registration with the SACSSP; Registration with the
SACSSP as a Social Worker; A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Recommendation: A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Job related knowledge; Analytic, diagnostic, assessment tools,
evaluation methods and processes; Personnel Management; Supervision
Framework for Social Workers; Social Work legislation related to children;
Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Skills needed: Communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Organising and planning;
Project planning; Psycho social intervention; Report writing; Presentation and
facilitation; Analytical and problem-solving; Client orientation and customer
focus.
DUTIES : Ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes is rendered; Attend to any other matters that
could result in or stem from social instability in any form; Supervise employees:
Supervise and advise social workers, social auxiliary workers and volunteers
to ensure an effective social work service; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field; Supervise all the administrative functions
required in the unit and undertake the higher level administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Arendse Tel No: (021) 763 6206
157
POST 13/264 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (EDEN KAROO) REF NO:
DSD 13/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April Tel No: (021) 763 6217
POST 13/265 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 19/2025
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE WINELANDS/OVERBERG)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
158
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mtlaka Tel No: (021) 872 7818
POST 13/266 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 20/2025
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO NORTH)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
159
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Swart Tel No: (021) 763 6212
POST 13/267 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 21/2025
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO EAST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Relevant legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Arendse Tel No: (021) 763 6206
160
POST 13/268 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 22/2025
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO SOUTH)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Relevant legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Brink Tel No: (021) 834 7000
POST 13/269 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (WEST COAST) REF NO:
DSD 23/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
161
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social wellbeing;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (022) 713-2273
POST 13/270 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER: COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DSD 16/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS
AVAILABLE IN CAPE WINELANDS/OVERBERG)
SALARY : Grade 1: R278 169 - R324 960 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R334 419 - R393 933 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R404 826- R543 120 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-
Degree or higher); No experience required. Grade 2: An appropriate 3-year
tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or higher); A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience in Community Development work after obtaining
the required tertiary qualification. Grade 3: An appropriate 3-year tertiary
qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or higher); A minimum of 20 years
appropriate experience in Community Development work after obtaining the
required tertiary qualification. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Community development work, skills, attitudes and values of communities;
Human behaviour and social systems and legislation to assist with
interventions at the points where people interact with their environments in
order to promote self-empowerment; The ability and competence to co-
ordinate community development structures and ability to manage projects;
The ability to influence individuals and group to participate in their own self-
empowerment ventures; The understanding of social dynamics of
communities; Skills needed: Presentation; Proven computer literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Facilitation; Research; Knowledge and
understanding of basic Financial Management.
DUTIES : Identify and facilitate the implementation of integrated community development
interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant
stakeholders; Liaise and co-ordinate with all relevant role players, internal and
external and stakeholders (e.g. in departments/provinces, NGOs, local
community structures and faith-based organisations) to facilitate collaboration
and to establish partnerships to ensure the sustainability of development
actions within the community; Support communities and perform administrative
support on community development and related activities; Keep up to date with
162
new developments in the community development field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van Dyk Tel No: (021) 814 2818
POST 13/271 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
07/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO EAST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12(Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); only Z83 and CV on
application all other documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates; A valid
code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic understanding of
the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and social issues; South
African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of developmental social
welfare services; South African judicial system and the legislation governing
and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge of financial matters
related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good communication (written
and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem solving and
analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Arendse Tel No: (021) 763 6206
POST 13/272 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES- ATLANTIS
REF NO: DSD 08/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12(Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); only Z83 and CV on
application all other documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates; A valid
code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic understanding of
the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and social issues; South
African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of developmental social
welfare services; South African judicial system and the legislation governing
and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge of financial matters
related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good communication (written
and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem solving and
analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500
POST 13/273 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
09/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO SOUTH)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
163
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); only Z83 and CV on
application all other documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates; A valid
code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic understanding of
the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and social issues; South
African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of developmental social
welfare services; South African judicial system and the legislation governing
and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge of financial matters
related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good communication (written
and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem solving and
analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Brink Tel No: (021) 834 7000
POST 13/274 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
10/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN EDEN KAROO)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum; (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April Tel No: (021) 763 6217
POST 13/275 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
11/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE
WINELANDS/OVERBERG)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); only Z83 and CV on
application all other documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates; A valid
code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic understanding of
the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and social issues; South
African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of developmental social
welfare services; South African judicial system and the legislation governing
and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge of financial matters
related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good communication (written
and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
164
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem solving and
analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E De Villiers at (072) 332 1117
POST 13/276 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
12/2025 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO NORTH)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Cummings-Damon Tel No: (021) 483 7938
165