PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 11 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 28 MARCH 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of
vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is
not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed
to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department
in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE
NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should
be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness
through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the
course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC SERVICE INNOVATION A 03 - 04
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 05 - 12
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR C 13 - 18
HOME AFFAIRS D 19 - 21
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT E 22 - 23
MINERAL RESOURCES AND ENERGY F 24 - 25
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 26 - 28
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION H 29 - 30
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT I 31 - 34
TRANSPORT J 35 - 40
WATER AND SANITATION K 41 - 48
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES L 49 - 52
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE M 53 - 56
GAUTENG N 57 - 59
KWAZULU NATAL O 60
MPUMALANGA P 61 - 77
WESTERN CAPE Q 78 - 155
2
ANNEXURE A
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC SERVICE INNOVATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be e-mailed to Recruitment@cpsi.co.za and the subject of your
email should read ASD: IT Support Ref No: 0001/2025. (Applications received after
the closing date will not be considered). Faxed applications will not be considered.
CPSI reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : The CPSI is a National Government Component listed in Part A of Schedule 3 of the
Public Service Act, reporting to the Minister for the Public Service and Administration
(MPSA). The CPSI is a solution-focused effective and efficient public sector
government component playing a leading and catalytic role with regard to Public
Service reform and transformation through innovation. It aims to entrench the culture
and practice of innovation in public service through unearthing existing innovations for
learning and replication. In order to perform this purpose, the CPSI performs the
following functions – Providing the Minister (and her portfolio organisations) with
independent, diverse and forward-looking advice and research, as well as partnerships
that enhance Public Service transformation and reform. Creating an enabling
environment that nurtures, supports and encourages innovation within the structures
and agencies of the South African Government, initiating, implementing and managing
self-sustainable innovation projects in partnership with the private sector and other
relevant stakeholders, implementing special projects that are mandated by the Minister
from time to time. It is the intention to promote re-presentively in the CPSI through the
filling of this position. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be
completed on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Applications using the incorrect application
form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment form (Z83) must
be fully completed (Sections A, B, C & D are compulsory and sections E, F, and G are
not compulsory if the CV is attached), signed, and initialled by the applicant. Failure by
the applicant to fully complete, sign, and initial the application form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. The application must
indicate the correct job title and the department where the position is advertised. An
application form must be accompanied by a fully detailed CV only. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to (1) a practical exercise, (2) Integrity (Ethical Conduct), and (3) will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizenship or
permanent residency verification, financial records, and qualification /study verification,
and applicants could also be required to provide consent for access to their social
media accounts. Reference checks will be done during the selection process.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only, if you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 11/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT SUPPORT REF NO: 0001/2025
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09). Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R532
602 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a 3-year National Diploma / Bachelor NQF in ICT or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6/7. Additional Certification in IT Service support-related
competencies, including cloud hosting, is an added advantage. 3-5 years’ experience
in ICT Service Desk and/or ICT Incident Management, Server support Network
administration, and management of infrastructure projects in a public sector
environment. Knowledge: Understand ICT Procurement in line with government and
SITA processes and prescripts. Technical support, hardware support, and software
support. Good understanding of network types including LAN, WAN, and Point to Point.
knowledge of Firewalls, Endpoint Security, and Security Gateways. Knowledge of
Transversal Systems including an understanding of BAS emulation Servers would be
an advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Policy Framework, including CGICTPF
(2022), interacting with auditors, managing ICT assets, and supporting innovation
projects. Good interpersonal, analytical, problem-solving, initiative, teamwork, and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate the provision of ICT requests and provide technical support.
Facilitate the ICT incident management processes and monitor progress on assigned
incidents. Management of in-house Firewall and facilitation of hosted Firewall
3
Management, including spam and IP filtering. Ensure that SLA targets are met. Ensure
that Operational Plan targets are met. Ensure user requests are logged. Manage
infrastructure upgrades and projects as needed. This includes the upgrade of the
servers and network LAN and WAN. Facilitate the configuration and management of
the hosted telephone infrastructure/ PABX service. To support and monitor existing
infrastructure networks new and old access points including cabling. To support and
monitor existing infrastructure, perform preventative maintenance work, backup, and
perform other regular support activities to ensure effectiveness and to provide cover
on such tasks when required. Monitor incidents and call resolutions in line with the
Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Conduct bi-annual user satisfaction surveys and
provide feedback to improve ICT services.
ENQUIRIES : CPSI: Human Resources Tel No: (012) 683 2800/17
4
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve sustainable
development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital, increase integrated
technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the Department through the filling
of this posts. The candidature of persons whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will
therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been in effect
since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can be downloaded
at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted using the old
Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be accompanied by a comprehensive
CV, with specific starting and ending dates in all relevant positions and clarity on the
levels and ranks pertaining to experience, as well as current remuneration package,
as well as at least 2 contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be
requested to submit certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up engagements/second round interviews/or
any other method) that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job. Following
the interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend candidates
to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and
project management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced
problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced
communication skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening process which includes
criminal records and verification of educational qualification certificates. It is important
to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and
attachments in support of the application are submitted by the due date.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept
that your application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to
make an appointment. The below post is a senior management post. The requirements
for appointment at Senior Management Service level include the successful completion
of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates
must provide proof of successful completion of the course prior to appointment.
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/02 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SECRETARIAT AND EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO:
DCSE/25
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates earning more than the first
notch of the Salary Level will be treated according to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration / Management / Business
Administration / Social Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized
by SAQA. 5 years’ relevant experience at a middle/senior management level in
corporate secretariat and executive support environment. The Nyukela Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post.
Proficiency in MS Word. A valid driver’s license. Travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Exceptional writing and editing skills.
Willingness to work long hours and over weekends. Generic Competencies: Strategic
capacity and leadership. People management and empowerment. Programme and
project management. Financial management. Knowledge management. Change
5
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Local Government policies and legislation. Public Administration.
Government systems and procedures. Intergovernmental relations act and structures.
Cabinet and parliament procedures and protocol.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Direct, coordinate and
provide secretariat services to all internal decision-making structures such as EXCO,
MINEXCO, MINDG and the Director-General’s bilateral meetings. Oversee the
management and the recording of all action items, resolutions, follow-up and report on
all the4 implementation of all resolutions and evaluate the impact. Set up a strategic
agenda for all meetings in line with departmental priorities. Provide quality control and
assurance on all submissions to the Director-General and Minister. Oversee the
coordination and processing of e-submissions for the Director-General and Minister’s
approval. Oversee the coordination of Parliamentary Questions, Reports,
Engagements and provide support to Portfolio and Select Committees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. X Xundu Tel No: (012) 334 0643
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit1@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact Rebeccah Hatlane Tel No: (011) 941 1953
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/03 : CONTROL GISC TECHNOLOGIST GRADE B REF NO: CHTR/35
SALARY : R1 052 553 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-to-four-year GISC or related Bachelor’s degree. Compulsory registration with
the South African Geomatics Council (SAGC). Six (6) years of post-qualification GISc
Technologist experience. Experience in Enterprise GIS Administration. Experience in
Spatial and statistical analysis and development of information products like analytics
dashboards, story maps etc. Experience in administration, licensing and application
development on ArcGIS online and ArGIS Portal. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS
Word. GIS software packages. Driver’s License. Travelling. Generic Competencies:
Strategic Management and direction. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Team Leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial
Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication and listening
skills. Computer skills. Delegation and development of others. Planning organising and
execution. Ability to manage conflict. Language proficiency. Knowledge management.
Negotiation skills. Change management. Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Programme and project management. Legal and operational
compliance. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge.
Systems skills. Geo-Database design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Creating high performance organisational culture. Technical consulting.
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop and manage
spatial information applications for line function. Ensure interoperability between
systems to maximise efficiency. Publish data into a web based GISc system.
Document GISc processes undertaken during optimization and integration. Undertake
spatial modelling. Coordinate and manage the design, development and creation of
geospatial databases. Allocate, control, monitor and report on all resources and
continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between operations
and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management according to the line
function duties. Management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the GISc
environment/ services. Allocate, control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the development, motivation and
utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base
and manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve line function
objectives. Undertake requirements analysis where GIS projects are deployed.
Undertake cost benefit analysis and ensure implementation of GIS Standards.
Research, investigate and advice on new GIS technologies. Develop new methods/
technologies for solving spatial data problems. Support provinces and municipalities to
build GIS capabilities. Analyse Municipal Spatial Planning tools to guide Strategic
Integrated Planning. Support line function to roll out the DDM Spatialisation guideline.
Develop and maintain the Integrated Development Planning Information Management
System (IDPIMS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 334 0600 / 079 8917 995
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit7@phakipersonnel.co.za
6
For application enquiries contact: Akhona Mjajubana Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/04 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SECRETARIAT REF NO: DD:CS/26
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration/ Business
Administration/ Social Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in the related field. Proficiency in MS Excel
and MS Word. Driver’s License and travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage):
Exceptional writing and editing skills. MS Project and MS PowerPoint. Willingness to
work long hours and over weekends. Generic Competencies: Planning and
Organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project Management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and
customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written).
Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge on the following: Public Service and
departmental prescripts/ policies. Three spheres of government. Corporate Secretariat
Best Practices and government procedures. Advanced minute taking. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Effective and efficient
coordination and management of parliamentary engagements. Capturing and
communication of Parliamentary Portfolio and Select Committee resolutions. Effective
and efficient coordination and management of Parliamentary Questions. Management
and coordination of incoming and outgoing correspondence in the Office of the
Director-General. Development and maintenance of the DCoG Strategic Diary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. X Xundu Tel No: (012) 334 0643
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit3@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Mxolisi Makhasana Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/05 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND REPORTING REF NO: DD:PR/27
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management/
Development Studies/ Public Administration/ Public Management or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in
strategic planning and reporting. Proficiency in MS Excel, PowerPoint and MS Word.
Additional Requirements (Advantage): Ability to use the electronic Quarterly
Performance Reporting System (eQPR). Generic Competencies: Planning and
Organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project Management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and
customer focus. Diversity management. Financial management. Interpersonal skills.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge
and understanding of: Legislation governing planning and reporting. Data Collection.
Analysis and report writing. Research methodology. Strategic Planning Processes.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Facilitate the development
of a Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan. Coordinate and facilitate the
development of the departmental Annual Operational Plan. Update the quarterly
performance reporting system and prepare quarterly performance reports
presentations. Update MTDP reports, prepare Annual Reports, Handover Reports,
Mid-Term Assessment Reports, and End-Term Assessment Reports. Update and
monitor the implementation of the Strategic Planning and Reporting Directorate’s
Annual Operational Plan, including audit and risk action plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Kgwete Tel No: (012) 334 0956
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit4@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Karabo Mthombeni Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/06 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL AND DONOR RELATIONS REF NO:
DDIDR/28
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in International Relations/
Development Studies or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in International Relations and Donor Coordination.
Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. A valid driver’s license and travelling. Additional
Requirements (Advantage): Participating in International Multilateral Fora. Generic
Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem solving and decision making.
7
Coordination. Project management. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of:
International Relations issues and environment. Donor coordination policies and
landscape. Research. Donor funding requirements and skills in resource mobilization.
Local government policies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage and coordinate
international relations research in support of the mandate of the Department. Support
the participation of the Department at multilateral and other strategic global and
regional fora. Manage and monitor the implementation of bilateral agreements and
related international relations partnership and activities. Establish, build and maintain
relationships with key strategic countries or international institutions in support of the
departmental mandate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Tembani Tel No: (012) 334 0814
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit2@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Lehlohonolo Radebe Tel No: (011) 941 1953.
POST 11/07 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DDICT/29
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Systems or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5
years’ experience in Information Technology field. Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word,
MS Project and MS PowerPoint. Other Competencies: Microsoft 365 Certified
Administrator. Microsoft Certified: Azure Administrator. Microsoft Azure/ Microsoft
Windows Certification. Generic Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem
solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management. People management
and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity
management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In depth
knowledge of: The ICT Governance in terms of the Corporate Governance of ICT
Policy Framework (CGICTPF). DPSA Cloud Directive. Minimum Information Security
Standards (MISS). VMWare/ Microsoft Azure skills. Datacentre Infrastructure
Management skills. Teamwork and negotiation skills. Troubleshooting and problem-
solving skills. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage, implement,
maintain and monitor all ICT Infrastructure in compliance with the relevant policies and
operations to improve infrastructure costs, performance and end user satisfaction.
Manage, implement and monitor ICT availability and capacity management for on-
premises and cloud infrastructure. Manage and monitor local area network (LAN) and
wide area network (WAN) traffic and report accordingly. Provide third-line technical
support services (incidents, problem and change management).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Paul Ngobese Tel No: (012) 334 4846
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit6@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Mxolisi Makhasana Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LAN/WAN/INTERNET/SECURITY IMPLEMENTATION REF
NO: DD:LWISI/30
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Systems or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5
years’ experience in Information Technology field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS
Word. Other Competencies: Microsoft Certified: Azure Security Engineer. Microsoft
Certified: Azure Administrator. Microsoft Azure/ Microsoft Windows Certification.
Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic
Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem solving and decision making.
Coordination. Project management. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In depth knowledge of:
ICT Governance in terms of the Corporate Governance of ICT Policy Framework
(CGICTPF). DPSA Cloud Directive. Minimum Information Security Standards. MISS
ICT Security Skills and certification. Datacentre Infrastructure Management skills.
Teamwork and negotiation skills. Troubleshooting and problem-solving skills.
Analytical skills.
8
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage and monitor the
implementation and updates of ICT Infrastructure operations to improve infrastructure
costs, performance and end user satisfaction. Manage and monitor the implementation
of ICT security policy across the ICT environment. Provide third-line technical support
services (Incidents, problem and change management). Manage and monitor the local
area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) traffic and report accordingly.
Management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Ngobese Tel No: (012) 334 4846
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit9@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Akhona Mjajubana Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEVELOPER (SHAREPOINT, NET, JAVA) REF NO:
DDDSNT/31
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Information Systems or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in Information Technology. Proficiency in MS Excel and
MS Word. Additional Requirements (Advantage): PL-100: Microsoft Power Platform
App Maker certification or MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations
Apps Developer Certification. Generic Competencies: Planning and Organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management. People
management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and customer
focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Software Development: Java J2EE, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, XML,
SOAP. Microsoft Technologies: C#, ASP.NET, SharePoint, CRM, PowerApps and
Power Automate. Database Management: Microsoft SQL Programming, Entity
Relationship Design, Data Modelling. Application and System Design: System
Specification, Design and Implementation. Configuration and Deployment:
Configuration and implementation of Application Servers.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Conceptualize, design,
develop and test custom software applications utilizing SharePoint, ASP.NET,
C#.NET, Java, SQL Server, and web technologies. Extend and enhance the
functionality of existing software products to meet evolving business needs. Work
closely with project managers, business analysts and other team members to ensure
the successful delivery of software solutions. Establish and document coding
standards ensuring consistency and maintainability across development projects.
Diagnose and resolve application issues, ensuring optimal performance and user
satisfaction.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Ngcwabe Tel No: (012) 334 0850
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit5@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Puseletso Mampuru Tel No: (011) 941 1953.
POST 11/10 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DDIRM/32
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Science/ Archival
Studies/ Archives and Records Management or equivalent qualification at NQF level
6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in Records Management and
Registry Services. Electronic Document Management System (EDMS) Proficiency in
MS Excel and MS Word. Additional Requirements (Advantage): Honors Degree in
Information Science or Records Management. National Archives Certificate in Records
and Archives Management. Generic Competencies: Planning and Organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management. People
management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and customer
focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Records Management and Registry. Policy analysis and formulation.
Fire Plan. National Archives and Records Service Act No. 43 of 1996 as amended.
Electronic Communications and Transactions Act No. 25 of 2002. Protection of
Personal Information Act No. 4 of 2013 (POPI Act). Promotion of Administrative Justice
Act No. 3 of 2000. Public Finance Management Act No. 1 of 1999. Promotion of Access
to Information Act No. 2 of 2000. Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS).
South African National Standards – SANS 15489 – on information and documentation.
9
SANS 16175-2:2014 information & documentation-principles and functional
requirements of records on electronic office environment.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop, implement and
monitor policies and procedure manuals. Manage, review and maintain records
management systems. Develop, implement and monitor critical records programme.
Manage and maintain Electronic Document Management System (EDMS).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Ngcwabe Tel No: (012) 334 0850
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit10@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Koena Tibane Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/11 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE, RISK, AUDIT AND PROJECT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DDGRAPM/33
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Systems/ Computer Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised
by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in Risk Audit/ Compliance and Corporate Governance
of ICT environments. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and
Organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and
customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written).
Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of: DPSA Corporate Governance ICT
Framework. Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Risk and Information Systems
Control (CRISC), COBIT and ITIL.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the development
of strategic three year rolling and operational/ annual risk-based information
technology (IT) internal audit plans. Develop and manage policy and procedure on
information technology audits. Manage the implementation and monitoring of
information technology audits. Manage and monitor implementation of ICT governance
and compliance. Develop, update and monitor project management methodology and
templates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Seabela Tel No: (012) 334 4609
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit11@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Rebeccah Hatlane Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/12 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FACILITIES AND OHS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DDFOM/34
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Management/ Logistics
Management/ Built Environment or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in Facilities Management field. Proficiency
in MS Word. Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS Excel and MS PowerPoint.
Generic Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem solving and decision
making. Coordination. Project management. People management and empowerment.
Team leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge in:
Supply Chain Procurement processes. Public Finance Management Act. Treasury
Regulations. National Environmental Management Act, 1998. The National Building
Regulations and Building Standards Act, 1997. Occupational Health and Safety Act,
1993 – Building and Maintenance Services. Contract and property management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage office and parking
space planning and allocations. Manage building maintenance i.e., general assistance,
minor repairs, cleaning and hygiene services. Verify and certify invoices for building
rentals, municipal services and service providers. Manage buildings compliance with
health and safety standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Modise Tel No: (012) 395 4707
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit8@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Koena Tibane Tel No: (011) 941 1953
POST 11/13 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING REF NO: H&SCOGTA031
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
10
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Urban/ Town and Regional
Planning, Development Planning or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. Valid Driver’s License.
Extensive travelling. Proficiency in MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Word. Generic
Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem solving and decision making.
Coordination. Project management. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Research
principles. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Local government policy and legislative framework. Development
planning. Urban development related to local government legislation, policies,
regulations and frameworks. Municipal Infrastructure Development. Town and
Regional Planning principles and methodologies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the coordination of
the institutionalization of long-term infrastructure planning and asset management
practices in municipalities in collaboration with MISA and other relevant institutions.
Manage the development of policy frameworks and conditionalities for grants utilization
to support sustainable infrastructure delivery. Manage the Intermediate City
Municipalities Support programme as part of the implementation of the Integrated
Urban Development Framework (IUDF). Provide advice to municipalities on Urban
Development and Planning in line with the legislative framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Malaza Tel No: (012) 395 4661
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: cogta031@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
POST 11/14 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING REF NO:
H&SCOGTA032
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Urban/ Town and Regional
Planning/ Economics or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word.
Driver’s License and travelling. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising.
Problem solving and decision making. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Project management. Coordination. Client orientation and customer focus.
Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
In-depth knowledge of: Local government policy and legislative framework.
Development Planning. Urban development related to local government legislation,
policies, regulations and frameworks. Municipal Infrastructure Development. Town and
Regional Planning principles and methodologies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Advise on alternative
infrastructure financing options and models in collaboration with MISA, National
Treasury and other relevant institutions. Administer grant policy framework and
conditionalities to support sustainable infrastructure delivery. Coordinate relevant
structures and forums as part of the implementation of government urban development
policies and frameworks. Provide secretariat services for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Malaza Tel No: (012) 395 4661
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: cogta032@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
POST 11/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
H&SCOGTA033
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Development Planning/
Economics or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5
years’ experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Driver’s
License and travelling. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising. Problem
solving and decision making. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Project management. Coordination. Client orientation and customer focus.
Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
In-depth knowledge of: Local Economic Development. LED Policy. Development
Planning. Economic Development Trends. Public Administration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Coordinate development of
economic development policy and strategies across government to support
implementation of LED. Facilitate the alignment of IDP’s and PGDS’s to national
priorities and local economic development initiatives. Facilitate LED programme
through collaborative partnerships. Assist in mobilizing donor funding and coordinating
11
donor activity in LED. Monitor implementation of the LED policy framework to
strengthen implementation of Local Economic Development programs in
Municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Sibelekwana Tel No: (012) 336 5836
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: cogta033@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
POST 11/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MIG ADMINISTRATION REF NO: H&SCOGTA034
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Social Sciences/ Public
Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-
5 years’ experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Driver’s
License and travelling. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising. Problem
solving and decision making. People management and empowerment. Team
leadership. Project management. Coordination. Client orientation and customer focus.
Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
In-depth knowledge of: Data management and modelling. Strategic analysis.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Facilitate commitments
levels in Gauteng, Free State and Mpumalanga Provinces. Manage MIG transfers to
municipalities in Gauteng, Free State and Mpumalanga Provinces. Facilitate MIG
expenditure reporting for Gauteng, Free State and Mpumalanga Provinces. Facilitate
and support MIG compliance in Gauteng, Free State and Mpumalanga Provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Heydenreich at 066 4784 397
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: cogta034@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post
with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric
targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 16 April 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 midnight (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and CV
only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct job title and
the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully completed,
initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete,
initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in
full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants
to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions
that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed.
Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a
completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication from
Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when
shortlisted). The Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do
not comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check
(criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and
employment verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you
consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information
will be used solely for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third
parties without prior consent unless required by law. The requirements for application
of Senior Management Services (SMS) include the successful completion of a SMS
Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as endorsed by the National School Government
(NSG). Prior to appointment, a candidate should therefore have proof that they have
registered for the Pre-Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for
Nyukela is at the applicants own expense. The course is available at the NSG under
the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical competency
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which
be communicated by the Department, following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised
post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement.
The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment
Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling
of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/17 : DIRECTOR- GENERAL REF NO: HR4/25/03/01HO
Five (5) year performance based fixed term contract
SALARY : R2 259 984 per annum, (all- inclusive)
13
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in Public Management/Public
Administration/ Labour Relations/ LLB/ Business Administration/ Business
Management/ Economics and Political Science. Valid driver’s license. Ten (10) years
of experience at Senior Managerial level. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public
Service (SMS) Pre-Entry Programme endorsed by NSG is a prerequisite for
appointment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic; National Development Plan;
Public Service Act and Regulations; Public Service Administrative Management Act;
Public Finance Management Act and relevant treasury regulations; Auditor General
Prescripts; Labour Relations Act; Basic Conditions of Employment Act; Employment
Equity Act; Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA); Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA); Occupational Health and Safety Act and
regulations; International politics and relations; South African Foreign Policy;
Departmental policies and procedures; Batho Pele principles, Thorough understanding
of the Global and South African Labour Market, Knowledge of Public Service
transformation and management issues. Skills: Superior leadership, Excellent written
and verbal communication, Ability to interact with people at all levels; Strong public
speaking; Proven change management and capability; Analytical, organizational, and
interpersonal; Complex stakeholder management skills, especially at the
intergovernmental level; Innovative and creative thinking; Strategic coordination;
Project management; Policy formulation and computer literacy. Competencies:
Strategic leadership and capability; Financial management; Risk management;
Corporate governance; Thorough understanding of the global and South African labour
market; Understanding of public service transformation and management issues; Good
understanding of the workings of parliament and statutory bodies.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction in delivering the Department’s mandate.
Provide strategic leadership on administration, executive support and corporate
services. Oversee the provision and management of Inter-Governmental Relations,
strategic management, governance and risks services. Oversee the delivery of
Inspection and Enforcement Services (IES) nationwide. Implementation Public
Employment Services (PES) across the Country and oversee implementation of
strategy on co-ordination of government wide public employment programmes. Lead
Labour Policy and Industrial Relations (LP&IR) to support the Department’s mandate.
Oversee the formulations, implementation and evaluation of Unemployment Insurance
Act (UIA) and the Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act (UICA), including the
implementation of poverty alleviation schemes or programmes/strategy. Oversee the
formulation, implementation, and evaluation of the Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), including poverty alleviation schemes and
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Matebesi Tel No: (012) 309 4865
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ3@labour.gov.za
POST 11/18 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: LABOUR POLICY AND INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/25/03/08HO
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in Economics/Labour
Economics/Research/Labour Relations/Labour Law/ International Relations. A valid
driver’s license. Eight (8) years of experience at a Senior Managerial level. Knowledge:
The South African Labour Market, Public Service transformation and management
issues, White paper on transformation of Public Service, Public Service Act, Ability to
convert policy into action, Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts,
Departmental policies and procedures, Corporate governance, Batho Pele principles,
International Politics and relations, South African Foreign policy, International Labour
Organisations, Access recognition and Licensing Committee, South African
Development Community, African Union, Minimum Information Security, Public
Finance Management Act. Skills: Financial management, Leadership, Verbal and
written Communication, Computer literacy, Project management, Strategic
management, Strategic management, Research, Conflict management, Problem
solving, Strong leadership, Diplomatic and tactful.
DUTIES : Develop strategy to promote equity in the Labour Market. Regulate the protection of
vulnerable workers for various industries in the country. Advice the Director General
and Executive Authority on an ongoing basis regarding Labour Market Information and
Statistics. Promote sound Labour Relations in various Industries within the country.
Contribute to employment creation and strengthen multilateral including bilateral
relations. Develop strategies and mechanisms to monitor the impact on Legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
14
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ4@labour.gov.za
POST 11/19 : COMMISSIONER (DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL) REF NO: HR4/25/03/31HO
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in Business
Management/Finance/ Accounting/ Operational Management. Eight (8) years of
experience at a Senior Managerial Level. Knowledge: Del and Compensation Fund
strategies and Goals. Del and Compensation Fund Service Delivery Models. Labour
Relations Act. Risk Management and Corporate Governance. Budgeting and Financial
Management. Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Relevant
stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele) Principles. COIDA. Legislative
requirements: (COIDA). Public Finance Management Act. National Treasury
Regulation. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Constitution of SA. Road Accident Fund (RAF).
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Competencies and Skills: Communication (verbal
and written). Computer Literacy. Strategic leadership and planning. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Managing inter-personal conflict and
problem solving. Decision Making. Accountability. People Management and
Empowerment. Internal and external environmental awareness.
DUTIES : Determine the Fund Strategy, Vision, Mission and Value of the Fund and develop
strategic plans. Leads and strategically direct the operations of the Fund. Apply a broad
Legal understanding in regulatory compliance. Represent the Fund at relevant internal
and external structure as well as maintaining stakeholder’s relations to enhance the
value of Fund. Establish and maintain appropriate internal controls and corporate
governance. Champion institutional transformation and organisational change in order
to deliver on service delivery commitments. Strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Fund. Manage senior management team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SBN Mhlungu at 060 975 8803
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ5@labour.gov.za
POST 11/20 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS REF NO: HR 4/25/03/16HO
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Public/ Administration/ Public
Management/ Labour Law/ Operations Management/ Human Resource
management/Finance/Accounting/Social Science/Medical Science/Health
Sciences/Engineering Science/Economics/ Statistics. Five (5) years of experience at
a senior managerial level in a relevant operational environment. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Recruitment and Selection, Human Resource administration, Relevant
legislation in Labour Relations Act, Public Service Regulation Act, Basic Condition of
Employment Act, Departmental Policies and procedures, Public Finance Management
Act, Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Management, Interpersonal,
Verbal and written communication, Computer literacy, Negotiation, Presentation.
DUTIES : Oversee the effective implementation of Inspection and Enforcement Services.
Oversee the effective implementation of Public Employment Service. Oversee labour
Centre Operations in the Province. Oversee the effective implementation of Corporate
Services. Oversee the effective implementation of UIF and CF services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ8@labour.gov.za
POST 11/21 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: HR5/1/2/3/1
Re-advertisement and applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 & SAQA recognized in Human Resources Management/
Business Management or in any other field related to the job. Five (5) years’ functional
experience at Senior Managerial level in a Corporate Services / Support environment
(Human Resource Management or Organisational Effectiveness or Communication or
Legal Services). Knowledge: HRM Methodology, Principles and Strategies. Digital
Acumen / Relevant HRM systems. Stakeholders Development and Management.
15
Grievance and Dispute Resolution. Organisational effectiveness methods and
principles. HR Planning (Demand & sully of posts). Change Management Methodology
and principles. Litigation Management. Legislative and Contract Development. Internal
Communication information system guidelines (Corporate identity Guideline).
Compliance, Governance and Risk Management. Knowledge of relevant legislation
and regulations (Constitution Act, COIDA, LRA, EE Act, SDA, BCEA, PAIA, PFMA,
OHSA, National Treasury Regulations, etc.). Legislative Requirement: Public Service
Act. Public Service Regulations. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act. Government
Communication Framework. Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership. Monitoring
and Evaluation. Project / Programme Management. Budgeting and Financial
Management. Strategy Development and Strategic Reporting. Communication.
Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical and Innovative Thinking.
Direction Setting. People Management. Performance and Oversight. Quality
Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder Development
& Relations. Vison & strategy.
DUTIES : Provide strategy direction and oversee Human Resource Management services for the
Fund (including COID Provinces). Oversee organisational effectiveness services.
Oversee the development and implementation for optimised strategies for
Communication, Marketing and stakeholder Engagement. Oversee the provision of
Legal Services. Manage the operations and resources (Human, Finance, Equipment,
Assets) of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Fakir at 083 706 5863
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 167
Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your applications to:
Jobs-CF18@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 11/22 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/25/03/09HO
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 & SAQA recognized in Human Resources Management/
Public Administration/ Public Management. Valid driver’s License. Five (5) years’
experience at Middle/ Senior managerial level in Human Resources Management.
Knowledge: Public Service transformation and management issues, White paper on
transformation of public service, Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts,
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele principles, Access Recognition and
licensing Committee, Huma Resource development, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries on Diseases Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Labour Relations Act,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Financial Management Act, Employment
Equity Act, Skills development Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing, Interpersonal,
Computer Literacy, Ability to convert policy into action, Communication, Problem
Solving, Listening and observation, Strategic management, Negotiation, Analysis,
People Management, Presentation.
DUTIES : Provide guidance on the development and implementation of policies, research and
monitoring objectives. Manage recruitment and selection processes, service benefits
and employment equity. Manage the Employee Health and Wellness programmes and
ensure proper planning of GDY matters within the Department. Manage MTEF Human
Resource Plan submitted to DPSA. Manage all resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ6@labour.gov.za
POST 11/23 : PROVINCIAL CHIEF INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/25/03/13HO
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 & SAQA recognized in Chemical Engineering/Electrical
Engineering/ Construction Engineering/ Mechatronics Engineering/ Environmental
Health/ BCOM Law/ LLB Degree/ B-Tech in Labour Law/ B-Tech in Labour Relations/
BCOM Accounting/ Auditing. A valid driver’s license. Five (5) years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in Inspections enforcement/ legal or compliance.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, PFMA,
LRA, BCEA, Public Service Act and Regulations, SDLA, OHS Act and Regulations,
COIDA, UIA, UI Contributions Act, Skills Development Act, Employment Equity Act,
Immigration Act, Sectoral Determination. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and
16
Organising, Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing
skills, Presentation skills, Research skills, Project Management.
DUTIES : Develop and implement programmes, work plans, and Policies for Inspection and
Enforcement. Manage and monitor the execution of legal proceedings. Monitor,
evaluate and report on the impact of Provincial Inspection and Enforcement
programmes. Provide strategic advice on all areas of inspection and enforcement at
Provincial level. Manage IES strategies and directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Moiloa Tel No: (012) 309 4389
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ7@labour.gov.za
POST 11/24 : DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT (ICT) REF NO: HR4/25/03/10HO
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 & SAQA recognized in Computer Science/Information
Systems/Information Technology. Certification in Project and Programme, Support
Offices, Management of Portfolios, Management of value, and Management of Risk
will be an added advantage. Five (5) years’ experience at Middle/ Senior managerial
level. Knowledge: Programme Management, ICT Systems and Development process,
Change management frameworks, Quality assurance framework, Departmental
policies and procedures, Batho Pele principles, Public Financial Management Act,
Technical ICT standards and procedures, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Ability to
convert policy into action, Skills Development. Skills: Project and programme
management, Interpersonal, Analytical thinking, Process improvement,
Communication Planning, Strategic management, Leadership, Facilitation,
Negotiation, Change management, Team Management, Presentation, risk and issue
management, Financial management, Quality management, Contract management,
Integration management, Conflict Resolution, Schedule management, Multi-tasking.
DUTIES : Provide ICT business solution delivery frameworks and direction to the Programme
Management Services. Manage the overall programmes of ICT projects design and
implementation in DeL. Manage the implementation of effective and efficient business
and system processes to ensure improved service delivery for DeL. Manage the
implementation of an effective and efficient ICT quality framework on all business
solutions. Manage all resources in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Maholela Tel No: (012) 309 4551
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ2@labour.gov.za
POST 11/25 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE AND REPORTING REF NO:
HR4/25/03/11HO
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 & SAQA recognized in Auditing/Internal Audit/ Public
Finance/ Financial Management/Accounting/Corporate Governance. A valid driver’s
license. Five (5) years’ experience at Middle/senior managerial level in
Auditing/Internal Audit/Financial Management/Accounting/Corporate Governance
environment. Knowledge: Finance, Technical standards/procedures, HR matters,
Managerial functions, financial regulations, Budget framework systems, Government
Accounting Methods, Medium Term Expenditure Framework, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act, Supply Chain Management prescripts, Generally,
Recognized Accounting Practice, Basic Accounting System, Personnel Salary System,
Treasury Guidelines on the compilation of budgetary submission, Framework on
Performance Information, Manual on the Financial Planning and Budgeting Systems,
Strategic Planning Management. Skills: Strong Analytical, Problem solving,
Communication, Training, Strategic Leadership, Planning, Budgeting, Public Finance,
Financial oversight, Research, Computer Utilization, Strategic Financial management,
Adaptability during changes to meet goals, Strategic management, Financial
leadership, Policy formulation and analysis, People management, Risk management,
Programme and Project management, Self-management.
DUTIES : Monitor and assess financial compliance and reporting with the Department and
overseeing financial investigations, advisory and awareness (advocacy) on all matters
relating to financial compliance within the Department. Oversee and guide on the
preparations of Departmental Financial Reporting and Departmental Financial
Statements. Monitor compliance with regard to financial reporting as well as corporate
governance of SOES and the implementation of their work plans and Annual
Performance Plans as prescribed by chapter 6 of the PFMA, King reports on good
17
governance and Treasury Regulations. Evaluate Financial Statements of industries
falling within the Ministerial Minimum Wage Determination and decide on the
affordability of such applications. Manage Human Resources in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. BE Maduna Tel No: (012) 309 4285
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-HQ1@labour.gov.za
18
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be submitted
online at https://eRecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct address specified as
follows:
Eastern Cape: Postal Address: Private Bag 7413, King Williams Town, 5600. Physical
address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town, 5600.
Gauteng: Postal Address: Private Bag X108, Braamfontein, 2017. Physical Address:
3rd Floor, Mineralia Building, Cnr De Beer and De Korte Street, Braamfontein, 2017.
Head Office: Postal Address: Private Bag X114, Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address:
230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001.
KwaZulu-Natal: Postal Address: Private Bag X09, Pietermaritzburg, 3209. Physical
address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
Limpopo: Postal Address: Private Bag X9517, Polokwane, 0700. Physical Address:
89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
Mpumalanga: Postal Address: Private Bag X11264, Nelspruit, 1200, Physical
Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
North West: Postal Address: Private Bag X119, Mmabatho, 2735. Physical Address:
Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street, Mafikeng, 2745.
Western Cape: Postal Address: Private Bag X9103, Cape Town, 8000. Physical
Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack Street, Cape Town, 8000.
CLOSING DATE : 25 April 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://eRecruitment.dha.gov.za or send to
the correct email address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the closing
date, accompanied by a fully completed application for employment form (New Z83,
effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za (citing the correct post
number and job title) a comprehensive CV, (citing the start and end date (dd/mm/yy),
job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable employment references
(as recent as possible)), regardless of online or manual submission. Shortlisted
candidates are required to submit a copy of their ID document, relevant educational
qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, a
copy of the applicant’s valid driver’s license and PDP (if specified as a job requirement)
and details of current earnings (latest salary advice). Furthermore, applicants who
possess (a) foreign qualification(s), will be required to submit the evaluated results of
such qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), by a specified date, and will be subjected to an interview, various relevant
tests and assessment, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, employment references including verification of exit reasons, and
conducting business with State). In the filling of entry-level positions, preference may
be given to locally based candidates on grounds of affordability, as well as
(unemployed) youth and the Department’s Interns and Learners who have successfully
completed their respective skills development programmes and satisfy the inherent
requirements of the post. Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period,
and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required.
Correspondence between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates, only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/26 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR-6) REF NO: HRMC 9/25/1 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Contracts
SALARY : R556 356 - R1 314 666 per annum (MR 6), (a basic salary package), Salary will be in
accordance with the OSD determination for Legally Qualified Personnel.
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 8 Years’ relevant post-
qualification legal experience. 5 Years’ experience in drafting commercial contracts will
be an added advantage. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
Knowledge of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks and
relevant Governance Structures. Understanding of the Public Finance Management
Act and Regulations. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. Financial Management. Program and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Change Management. Legal writing or
drafting of Legal documentations. Planning, organising and time management.
19
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, as well as report writing and
presentation skills. Influencing, networking, conflict management, facilitation and
negotiation skills. Innovation. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as
well as enabling technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively
managing the required work. Support digital transformation. Computer literacy.
Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following specific
tasks: Carry out daily operations of the Directorate: Contracts effectively. Draft and
scrutinize commercial contracts and service level agreements. Provide high-quality
legal advice and legal opinions pertaining to commercial contracts and service level
agreements. Conduct research on drafting commercial contracts, service level
agreements and legal opinions. Develop and implement policies, procedures and
directives. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quality and risk
management frameworks, standards and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance
with legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Ensure effective and
efficient management of resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr BC Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
POST 11/27 : LOCAL OFFICE MANAGER (X16 POSTS)
SALARY : R552 081 - R650 322 per annum (Level 10), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Aliwal North Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2a (X1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Grahamstown Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2b (X1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Lady Frere Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2c (X1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mount Ayliff Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2d (X1 Post)
Gauteng: Medium Office: Alberton Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2e (X1 Post)
Gauteng: Medium Office: Randburg Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2f (X1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Medium Office: Kwadukuza Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2g (X1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Medium Office: Prospecton Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2h (X1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Medium Office: Scottburgh Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2i (X1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Mutale Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2j (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Mhala Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2k (X1 Post)
North West: Medium Office: Zeerust Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2l (X1 Post)
North West: Medium Office: Mafikeng Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2m (X1 Post)
North West: Medium Office: Wolmaranstad Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2n (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Bellville Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2o (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Wynberg Ref No: HRMC 9/25/2p (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Public Management, Administration, Social Sciences at NQF level 6
as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ supervisor experience in a Civic Services
environment is required. Sound experience in an operations management environment
within Civic or Immigration Services. Knowledge of workflow planning and capacity
planning. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Excellent
abilities and experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of
online systems. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards. A valid
drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Management and Leadership. Service delivery innovation, client
orientation and customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
Management. Program and project management. Change management. Ability to
instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support
the Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation. Innovation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well
as report writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing,
networking, conflict management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information
management. Decision-making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Coaching and facilitating. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and
Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the overall operations and performance of the Office against
agreed service delivery standards. Provide advice and guidance on operations of the
Department at a Local Office level. Manage the provision of safe and secure enabling
documents as it relates to citizenship, births, marriages, death, travel documents and
passports. Ensure delivery against the mandates derived from the Government’s
Programme of Action (POA). Ensure effective management and oversight of the Local
Office’s Immigration Services operations in line with the Immigration Act. Foster
effective partnerships with all stakeholders and represent the Office at various forums.
Ensure the effective implementation of strategic objectives and innovation (digital
transformation and case management solutions) in the Local Office. Coordinate and
20
monitor delivery of the Local Office’s operational plan against agreed timeframes and
objectives. Implement governance processes, frameworks, policies, procedures, and
manage risks. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Local Office. Coach and guide staff on compliance with
all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama Tel No: (043) 604 6417
Gauteng: Mr P Mlangeni Tel No: (011) 242 9039 / 066 478 3254
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
North West: Mr L Appels Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409
21
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu obtainable using Microsoft edge or the latest
Chrome version or alternatively the address specified in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the
highest required qualification as well as a driver’s license where necessary, will only
be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date.
Application that do not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and
will be disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for submission. A
SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical and competency
assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School of Government
(NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a
financial disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance certificate from
country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer.
In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of
South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where driver’s
license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill
these positions. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
preference will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/28 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY REF NO: 24/83/CD (X4
POSTS)
(2 Years Contract)
This is a re-advertisement; applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R308 154 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in Financial Management, Financial
Accounting, Internal Audit or equivalent as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 2
years’ experience in Finance; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulations, Division of Revenue Act (DORA);
Knowledge of policy development. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy;
Planning and organizing skills; Communication skills (verbal and written); Creative
thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem analysis; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Implement the project budget forecast and objectives; Collect and consolidate of
budget; Support the expenditure process; Capture statistics and generate reports on
financial statistics indicating performance; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.D Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The
Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception,
East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 11/29 : SECRETARY IN THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF MAGISTRATE’S OFFICE REF NO:
25/05/FS
SALARY : R216 417 – R254 928 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Court Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate); Skills and Competencies:
22
Planning and organizing; Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point and
Internet); Good communication (verbal and written) skills; Presentation skills; Problem
solving; Good Interpersonal relations; Proper usage of Presentation Equipment’s;
Ability to correctly interpret relevant documentation; Numeracy; Literacy; Intermediate
typing skills (ability to do high speed typing and utilize software packages effectively to
type more advanced documents which include tables, graphs).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the
manager. Provides a clerical support service to the manager; Provides support to the
manager regarding meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Private Bag X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver to No 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein.
POST 11/30 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY REF NO: 24/85/CD
(2 Years Contract)
This is a re-advertisement; applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R216 417 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Skills and Competencies: Communication skills
(verbal & written); Interpersonal relations; Computer literacy; Numerical skills; Ability
to work under pressure and be self-motivated.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide financial
administration support services in the component; Keep and maintain personnel
records in the component; Provide supply chain clerical support services within the
component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.D Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The
Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception,
East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
23
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL RESOURCES AND ENERGY
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above. You may
forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Mineral Resources and Energy, Private Bag X59, Arcadia, 0007.
Alternatively, application may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner
Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman alternatively to Matimba House
Building 192 Visagie Street Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street Pretoria. Another
option is to submit application through email as a SINGLE scanned document/ One
PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each position. (Kindly note that
the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15mb). General
enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms M Palare Tel No: (012) 406 7426/ Ms
T Gumede Tel No: (012) 406 7567
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE) is an equal opportunity;
affirmative action employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public
Sector through the filling of this post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment
will promote representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly persons with
disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An indication of
such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications. N.B: Kindly note that
the Department provides for four methods of submitting a job application, namely:
Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the
Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service
Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full, accurately,
legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by a comprehensive/
detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83
and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of
the interview. The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons
and their contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession
of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an interview is not
received within three (3) months after the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent
requirements; therefore, criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the
applications received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical
exercise and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be required to
give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct this
exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting, qualification verification,
criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants who do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements, as well as application received after the closing date
will not be considered. If an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must
do so in writing. It is also important to note that the Department reserves the right not
to fill any advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/31 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF NO: 012
Office of the Minister: Minerals and Petroleum Resources
Re- advertisement for the post no: 001 PSVC 33 of 2024, Applicants who applied
previously need to re-apply.
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Politics/administration or relevant qualification (NQF level 6) with
minimum of 3 years relevant experience at Assistant Director/ middle management
level in ministry operations with valid driver’s license as an added advantage Plus the
following key competencies: Knowledge of: Ministry Operations, working knowledge of
the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa, Broad Knowledge and
understanding of the functional areas covered by executive authority’s portfolio.
Knowledge of public service policy and prescripts, Minerals and Petroleum Resources
sector. Skills: Good verbal and written communication skills, Computer Literacy,
24
proven problem-solving skills, Good Interpersonal liaison skills, Negotiation skills,
formulating and editing skills. Thinking Demand: Analytical, Creativity, Strategic,
Evaluation and Decision Making.
DUTIES : Manage the parliamentary process, Liaise with MPs, councillors and Parliamentary
standing Committees, Support Parliamentary study Groups, Liaise with stakeholder.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka Contact Number Tel No: (012) 406 742
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment01@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Recommendations/Note: Candidates will undergo a practical exercise and integrity
assessments.
POST 11/32 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION REF NO: 013
Office of the Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
Re- advertisement for the post no: 003 PSVC 33 of 2024, Applicants who applied
previously need to re-apply.
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Public Administration or relevant qualification (NQF level 6) with
minimum of 3 years ’relevant experience at Assistant Director/ middle management
level working in political and parliamentary environment in South Africa PLUS the
following key competencies: Knowledge of: Knowledge of Ministry Operations, working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa, Broad
Knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the executive
authority’s portfolio, Knowledge of public service policy and prescripts in Minerals and
Petroleum sector. Skills: Good verbal and written communication skills, computer
literacy, problem solving skills, good interpersonal liaison skills, good organizational
skills Thinking Demand: Analytical, Creativity, Strategic, Evaluation and Decision
Making.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative activities within the office of the executive authority this
would inter alia, entail the following, liaise with internal and external role-players with
regard to matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority, Render a cabinet
/executive council support service to the executive authority, Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka Tel No: (012) 406 7421
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment02@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Recommendations/Note: Candidates will undergo a practical exercise and integrity
assessments.
POST 11/33 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 014
Office of the Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
Re-advertisement for the post no: 009 PSVC 35 of 2024, Applicants who applied
previously need to re-apply.
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF level 4) with no experience PLUS the following key
competencies: Knowledge of: Understanding of the National Archives Act and
Regulations. Understanding of the working of the Ministry. Understanding of the
working of a fax, machine and photocopier. Skills: Communication skills, Computer
skills, Managing the registry. Organising Skills. Thinking Demand: Problem solving,
Decision making, Planning and Innovative thinking.
DUTIES : Manage the registry (Develop and maintain proper filing system, disposal of
documents, opening and closing of files, proper filing of documents). Develop and
maintain a database of clients/ services providers. Receive, record, screen all incoming
submissions before forwarding it to the Minister and for distribution. Handle
correspondence (receive, sort, acknowledge, distribute and make follow ups). Execute
other duties as instructed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka Tel No: (012) 406 7421
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment03@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Recommendations/Note: Candidates will undergo a practical exercise and integrity
assessments.
25
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of
section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will
be taken into consideration and preference will be given to Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: Midrand/Constitutional Court: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand,
1685.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be downloaded on
internet at www.judiciary.org.za / www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or
obtainable from any Public Service Department and should be accompanied by a
recent comprehensive CV only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and email
addresses must be indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in
one folder. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must be fully
completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application
must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully complete,
sign and initial the application form will lead to 40 disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be
considered. Should you be in a possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Dual citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from
the country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a
copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have
not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered during the selection process. All shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Service (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection committee will recommend candidates
to attend generic managerial competencies using the mandated Department of Public
Service and Administration (DPSA) SMS competency assessment tools. Applicants
could be required to provide consent for access to their social media accounts. One of
the minimum entry requirements to the Senior Management Service is the Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme (certificate) which is an online course,
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). For more details on the pre-
entry course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-
programme. The successful candidate will be required to complete such prior to
appointment. All successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment
contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The
Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information
provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application was
unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal information for
internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the information requested now or
during the process is required for recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested
information will render your application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice
will safeguard the security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the
recruitment process
26
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the two posts of Registrar: Mpumalanga Division of the
High Court, Middelburg and Mbombela with Ref No: 2025/22/OCJ and 2025/27/OCJ
advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 09 dated 07 March 2025 with a closing
date of 25 March 2025 are permanent posts. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/34 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT SECURITY SPECIALIST REF NO: 2025/49/OCJ
SALARY : R849 702 – R1 000 908 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma in Computer Engineering,
Information Technology or equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6 (360 Credits) as 30
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of seven (7) years’ ICT Infrastructure Support
Management environment, with five 5 years’ experience in ICT Security Operations
specifically Firewall and Identity Management. Valid Firewall or Cybersecurity
Technical certificate is mandatory. Valid MCSA: Windows 2012 or 2016 certificate,
Valid CISM certificate or equivalent will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Experience with Windows Server 2012 & 2016
environment. Experience with Microsoft Exchange 2013 and 2016 environment.
Experience with DNS, DHCP, SQL, and WSUS. Experience with antivirus and malware
protection solutions. Experience with firewall management specifically Fortinet
firewalls. Experience in network and systems administration. A strong focus on service
delivery with a desire to innovate, improve process, support others and share ideas.
Excellent interpersonal relations. Effective communications skills (written and verbal).
Attention to details imperative. Excellent Problem-Solving skills. Ability to multi-task is
essential. Time management and ability to work under pressure. Ability to adapt to
change.
DUTIES : Installation, configuration and maintenance of the OCJ’s Enterprise Security Systems
and Solutions. Implementation and management of the security in all OCJ’s externally
facing ICT security applications. Implementation and maintenance of the ICT security
solutions for vulnerability audits and assessment. Establishment of an enterprise
security stance through policy, architecture and training processes. Establishment and
management of enterprise identity governance and access management solutions for
the OCJ. Provide supervisory to internal and external ICT security management team.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr T Mohono Tel No: (010) 493 8754
HR Related Enquiries: Mr A Khadambi Tel No: (010) 493 2500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/48/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental Employment
Equity goals.
POST 11/35 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES PRACTICES REF NO:
2025/50/OCJ
SALARY : R444 036 – R532 602 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and a three-year National Diploma/Degree in Human Resource
Management/Public Management/Public Administration or equivalent qualification at
NQF6 (360 Credits as recognized by SAQA). A minimum of six (6) years in Human
Resource Management A least three (3) years’ experience at Supervisory level. A valid
driver’s license. Experience and Knowledge of Recruitment and Selection, PERSAL
Certificate in leave and personnel administration. Experience as a Personnel Controller
will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource
Management Policies, PSCBC Resolution, Determination of leave of absence in the
Public Service, Government Employee Housing Scheme, Government Employee
Medical Aid Scheme, and application of relevant Legislative Frame work such as Public
Service Act, 1994 as amended, Public Service Regulations 2016, Basic Conditions of
employment Act 1997, Code of Conduct in the Public Service, and Labour Relations
Act. Knowledge of Government Employee Pension Fund. On-line submission of
Pension applications. Knowledge and understanding of Occupation Specific
Dispensation (OSD), OSD in Legal environment will be an added advantage. Ability to
interpret Policies. Practical experience in PERSAL System and Pension Case
Management. Highly skilled in the MS Office Suite, especially EXCEL. Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work under pressure. Analytical,
organizing, planning, presentation and stakeholder liaison skills. Conflict resolution and
negotiation skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to adhere to strict deadlines.
27
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the implementation of conditions of service and benefits such as
leave, resettlement, medical aid, resettlements, long service recognition, acting
allowances, injury on duty, housing allowance, overtime, etc. in terms of applicable
PSCBC Resolutions. Implement COIDA strategies to enforce compliance with COIDA
Legislation. Co-ordinate COIDA forms and liaise with the Department of Labour on
COIDA claims. Manage and implement Policy on Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health
Retirement (PILIR). Manage the implementation service termination process and exit
interviews. Approve transactions on PERSAL according to delegations. Develop,
review and implement HR policies, procedures and processes; operational plans, risk
management registers and audit action plans. Management of Recruitment and
Selection processes. Management of employee performance and development
processes and ensure compliance to the PMDS directives. Prepare monthly, quarterly
and annual reports, operational plans, risk management registers and Audit Action
plans. Management Human resource records and ensure compliance with the records
management prescripts. Provide human resource information, Knowledge and
understanding of occupation Specific Dispensation (OSD), OSD in Legal environment
will be an added advantage. knowledge management and provide technical advice to
the relevant stakeholders. Manage human resources administration enquiries to
ensure the correct implementation of human resource management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Technical /HR related enquiries: Ms D Kupa Tel No: (010) 493 2528
APPLICATIONS : Can be via email to: 2025/49/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment Equity
goals.
28
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The candidature
of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and Administration,
Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond Street, Batho Pele
House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia 0083, or E-mail your
application to Advert032025@dpsa.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2025
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.’’From 1 January 2021 should an application
be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be
considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone numbers
and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83
and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents, all non-SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification,
financial records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of
the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into an employment
contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interests declaration form within one month of appointment and
annually thereafter.
OTHER POST
POST 11/36 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: DPSA 03/2025
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). Annual
progression up to a maximum salary of R1 000 908 is possible, subjected to
satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employee Fund and a flexible portion
that may be structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Digital Communication / Communication
Studies / Journalism / Communication Science as recognised by SAQA. 3 years
supervisory experience. 5 years’ experience in the field of digital communications.
Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service administration,
specifically: The Public Service Act and Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act and Skills Development Act.
Knowledge of Information, Media Management and GCIS guidelines on
communication management, Paid media, Digital medial listening tools and scheduling
tools i.e. Hootsuite, Government Communication Policy, Government Communicators
Handbook and Government Corporate Branding Guideline. Managerial Skills:
Communication, Stakeholder management and coordination, Strategic thinking and
leadership, Analytical skills, Interpersonal relations, teamwork, confidentiality, Human
Resource Management, Research (basic), Change management and Program
management. Generic skills: Diversity management, Information management,
Presentation, Report writing and Conflict management. Technical (Specialisation)
Skills: Photo and video production and editing, Digital media management, Online
brand reputation management, Customer services, Computer Literacy, Digital
marketing skills, Digital analysis, Web Conferencing tools, Graphic Design Software
and Digital Literacy. Attributes: Strategic thinking and leadership, Ability to work
overtime, ability to work independently and as a team and Ability to work under
pressure and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Develop strategies, policies / guidelines and systems for digital communications,
graphic design, video, and photography services. Develop and review strategies,
policies / guidelines for digital communications, graphic design, video and photography
services. Develop and maintain the required systems for digital communications,
graphic design, video, and photography services. Render digital media services.
29
Provide digital media services which includes Drafting of content for publishing in the
digital platforms, implementing digital media campaigns, Promoting and managing
client/ stakeholders/ audience engagement, responding to queries received from
clients/ stakeholders / audiences, removing of inappropriate content and manage
inappropriate audience and updating of social media sites. Render graphic design,
video, and photography services for the Department. Develop the Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs) for the provision of Graphic design, video, and photography
services. Provide Graphic design, video, and photography services to the department
and the Ministry which includes Production of graphic design for the department and
the Ministry and Production of photography and video material. Manage all the
Operations, Systems and Processes of the Sub-Directorate. Develop, implement and
maintain, electronic and manual systems for the effective and efficient functioning of
the Sub-Directorate, Develop and submit Strategic, Annual Performance and
Operational Plans of the Sub-Directorate to the Director, Submit Sub-Directorate
performance agreements, probation reports, mid-year and annual assessment by the
stipulated due dates, Complete and submit the Sub-Directorate budget by the
stipulated due dates, Make inputs to the budget of the Directorate, Make inputs to all
audit findings of the Directorate by the approved due dates, Meet risk and ethics
management compliance requirement, Participate in transverse task/project teams
and work groups as required or nominated, Manage, analyse and report on digital
platforms and digital media assets, utilized by the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M.J.M. Mushi Tel No: (012) 336 1358
30
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the filling
of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901, Pretoria,
0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the event of hand
delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application register book as proof of
submission. Applicants may also email their applications to the following email
addresses: For: Executive Director- e-recruit.ED@dsd.gov.za
Chief Information Officer- e-recruit.CIO@dsd.gov.za
Chief Director: Legal Services – e-recruit.LS@dsd.gov.za
Ethics Practitioner – e-recruit.EP@dsd.gov.za
Professional Nurse – e-recruit.PN@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Sebatjane
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two referees
must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If applying for more
than one position, applicant must submit separate applications for each position. Short
listed candidates for a post will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications
and identity documents on the date of the interview. Applicants are advised that from
1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be
completed in full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form
can be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into the SMS
(submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Applicants are
expected to pay for the course and may enroll for it at a cost of R400.00. The duration
of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency based assessments). The competency assessment will
be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. The successful candidate will sign an annual
performance agreement, complete a financial discloser form and will also be required
to undergo a security clearance. Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 -
12 may be subjected to a competency assessment during the selection process. If the
candidate is applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the
date of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the
requested documents will result in your application not being considered. Personnel
suitability checks will be conducted on short listed candidates and the appointment is
subject to positive outcomes of the checks. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. The selection of candidates will be done with due regard
to the relevant aspects of the selection process as set out in the Public Service
Amendment Regulations, 2023, Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing
date will not be taken into consideration. If you have not been contacted within three
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above. Internal
applicants must submit and register their employment applications at the register book
in the DSD reception area for the attention of Ms P Sebatjane. DSD reserves the right
to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/37 : EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: INSPECTORATE REF NO: A/A1/2025
Inspectorate for Social Assistance
(5-Year Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules. The successful
31
candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement and to sign an
employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in the field of Public
Administration/ Management or Business Administration/ Management or Legal
Studies or Forensic Accounting Plus a minimum of 8 years experience at senior
management level. Knowledge of Social Assistance and Regulations, SASSA Act and
PREECA Act. Knowledge and understanding of the Social Security Framework.
Knowledge of matters related to strategic planning, risk management and monitoring
and evaluation. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act. Competencies needed: Strategic capability and leadership skills.
Programme and project management skills. Financial management skills. Change
management skills. Information and knowledge management skills. Communication
(written and verbal) skills. Service delivery innovation skills. Problem solving skills.
People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation and customer focus
skills. Stakeholder management skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Law
enforcement. Investigative. Legal skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability
to work under pressure. Innovation and creativity. Independent thinker. Ability to work
in a team and independently. Adaptability. Confidentiality. Cost consciousness.
Honesty, integrity and ethics. Emotional intelligence. Ability to evaluate/ analyze
information. Strategic awareness. Customer service oriented and focus.
Accountability. Ability to exercise appropriate judgement. Diplomacy. Independent
thinking. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Accountable for the overall management and administration of the Inspectorate for
Social Assistance. Oversee investigations of fraud, corruption and service
mismanagement relating to social assistance administered by SASSA. Oversee
financial audits and audits on compliance with regulatory and policy measures and
instruments relating to social assistance. Oversee and manage the establishment of
an effective complaints mechanism. Generally ensure the integrity of the social
assistance framework and systems as envisaged in Chapter 4 of the Social Assistance
Act, 2004 as amended.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Sibeko Tel No: (012) 741-6803
POST 11/38 : CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: B/A1/2025
Chief Directorate: Information Technology and Related Personnel
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement and to sign an
employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Computer Science, Computer
Information Systems, IT Management, or Database Administration Plus five (5) years’
experience at a senior management level. Knowledge of the relevant Public Service
regulatory frameworks such as MISS, MIOS, POPIA, SITA ACT, Corporate Support
ICT Framework etc. Knowledge of the government digital strategies. Public Finance
Management Act. Treasury regulations. Competencies needed: Programme and
Project management skills. People management and empowerment skills. Financial
management skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills. Client orientation and
customer focus. Policy development and formulation skills. Strategic capability and
leadership skills. Computer literacy. Change management skills. Interpersonal skills.
Knowledge Management skills. Problem solving and analysis skills. Statistical and data
analysis skills. Service delivery innovation skills. Stakeholder management skills.
Attributes: Pragmatism. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to bring the benefits of
IT, Information System and Information Management to solve business issues while
also managing costs and risk.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of information and knowledge management services. Manage
the provision of information technology operations services. Manage the design and
development of IT systems. Manage the departmental technology programmes and
projects. Manage partnership with service providers/ or stakeholders. Manage
stakeholder relations. Oversee, manage, and report on the budget, human resources,
and performance of the chief directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Oliphant Tel No: (012) 312-7654
32
POST 11/39 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: C/A1/2025
Chief Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement and to sign an
employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in the field of Law (LLB,
BPROC, BJURIS) PLUS five (5) years’ experience at a senior managerial level. An
admission as an Advocate/ Attorney will be added advantage. Knowledge of the
relevant Public Service Legislation. Knowledge and understanding of drafting legal
instruments. Knowledge and understanding of litigation management processes in
government. Knowledge and understanding of interpreting statutes, Constitutional
Law, Law of Evidence, Civil Procedure, Promotion of Access to Information Act. Public
Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act, 2000. Knowledge of Protection of Personal Information Act,
2013. Competencies needed: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Policy analysis
and development skills. Budget planning and monitoring skills. Service delivery
innovation skills. Problem solving and change management skills. People
management and empowerment skills. Client orientation and customer focus.
stakeholder management skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Operations
Management skills. Programme and project management skills. Financial
management skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills. Computer literacy.
People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation and customer focus
skills. Conflict management skills. Networking skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal
relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovation and creativity. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Adaptability. Diplomacy. Independent thinking. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage legislative review and drafting processes. Provide contract and litigation
management services. Provide legal advice and opinions. Oversee, manage and
report on the budget, human resources and performance of the chief directorate in line
with the set regulations prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Oliphant Tel No: (012) 312 7654
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/40 : ETHICS PRACTITIONER REF NO: D/A1/2025
Chief Directorate: Risk, Oversight and Integrity Management
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree/ National Diploma in Risk Management/ Internal Auditing/
Public Administration/ Business Management Plus 1-3 years’ experience in Ethics and
Integrity environment. Certified Ethics Practitioner registration with The Ethics Institute.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory. Knowledge of Public Service Act.
Knowledge of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Ethics Management
Framework. Knowledge of Strategy lifestyle audit in the Public Sector. Knowledge of
King IV report. Competencies needed: Communication (written and verbal) skills.
Planning, coordination and organizing skills. Problem Solving skills. Diagnostic and
analytical skills. Project management skills. Computer literacy. Facilitation and
presentation skills. Client orientation skills. People management skills. Fraud
investigation skills. Presentation skills. Attributes: Interpersonal and liaison skills.
Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Innovative
and creative. Assertiveness. Achievement orientated. Cost Consciousness. Business
Ethics. Confidentiality.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of Ethics and Integrity programs, policies and procedures
to ensure compliance in the department. Promote and implement code of conduct in
line with legislative frameworks. Conduct investigations on ethics related cases.
Promote financial disclosure information within the department and maintain the
database within the department. Analyse risk assessment report to identify ethics and
integrity related matters. Provide the secretariat services to the ethics and integrity
committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Samaad Tel No: (012) 312 7373
33
POST 11/41 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE REF NO: D/A1/2025
Sub-Directorate: Employee Health and Wellness
SALARY : R307 473 – R434 121 per annum, (Salary will commensurate with years of experience)
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/ Degree in nursing or equivalent certificate in occupational health.
Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures. Nursing statutes, and other
relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act. Knowledge of Health Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act. knowledge of Patient Rights Charter, Knowledge
of Batho-Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act.
Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc. Knowledge of Employee
health and wellness strategic framework. Knowledge of the Social Development
Sector. Competencies needed: Good Communication (written and verbal) skills.
Report writing skills. Facilitation skills. Co-ordination skills. Liaison skills. Networking
skills. Problem solving skills. Information management skills. Knowledge management
skills. Planning and organising skills. Computer literacy. Attributes: Responsiveness.
Pro-activeness. Professionalism. Accuracy. Flexibility. Initiative. Cooperation. Team
player. Supportive Assertive.
DUTIES : Develop, review and monitor the implementation of Health and Productivity Policy (eg,
Protocol, guidelines and SOP’s). Facilitate the establishment and operationalisation of
the sick bay for the department. Conduct needs assessment and implement Health
promotion programmes. Facilitate the communicable and non-communicable as well
as mental health within the department. Compile monthly and quarterly reports for
Health activities. Utilize human, material and physical resource efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Tabane Tel No: (012) 312-7694
34
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment equity
targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its
Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity Plan,
therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at the 159
Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria. Room 4034 or email to:
Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note: email applications must be sent as one attachment to
avoid non-delivery of the email and only quotes the name of the post you applying for
on the Subject Line as directed on the post note.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment Unit
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable from any
Public Service Department, (or obtainable at www.gov.za). Applicants must fill in full
new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and dates).
Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID document on the day
of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department
reserves the right not to fill the post. All shortlisted candidates for will be subjected to
undertake a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job; the logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews.
Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment after the interviews also take a note that National School of
Governance (NGS) has introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect
from 01 April 2020 as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services
(submitted prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Director-General particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a
performance agreement and employment contract with the Director-General within
three months from the date of assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to
be available for selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as
determined by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications, previous
experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please note:
Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/42 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2025/07
Branch: Administration (Office of the Director-General)
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R2 259 984 per annum (Level 16), all-inclusive package of which 30% may be
structured according to the individual needs plus 10% non-pensionable HoD
Allowance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 8 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Civil Engineering / Transport
Economics / Transport and Logistics Management / Transport Management / Maritime
Studies / Mechanical Engineering with at least 10 years' relevant experience at a
Senior Management level in the transport sector. Certificate of Successful completion
of the National School of Government's Senior Management Service Pre-Entry
Programme. A Master's Degree (NQF level 9) qualification as recognised by SAQA in
one of the above-mentioned disciplines or Management or Finance will serve as an
added advantage. Extensive knowledge in transport management including policy,
legislation, systems and operations and White paper on National Transport Policy.
Knowledge of the current global trends and research matters in the transport and
logistics environment and ability to convert policy into action. The ability to build and
lead high performance teams and drive the national transport policy, strategy and
implementation plans for overall developmental objectives of the country. The ability to
promote good relations with transport stakeholders, social partners and civil society.
Awareness of the challenges facing the transport sector due to global warming and the
35
options that South Africa has to address these challenges. Strong governance and
administration skills to ensure effective performance and service delivery with regards
to the Departmental obligations in Cabinet Clusters, parliament, State Owned Entities
and the sector. Extensive knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Good
communication skills (Verbal and non-verbal). Computer literacy and Governance
related to information. Good Financial Management an ability to compile and manage
budgets, control cash flow, risk management and administers tender procurement
processes in accordance with generally recognised financial practices in order to
ensure the achievement of strategic organisational objectives. Provides a vision, sets
the direction for the component/unit and inspires others to plan, execute, deliver and
report on the organisational mandate.
DUTIES : Coordinate and render effective, efficient strategic support and administrative services
to the Minister, Deputy Minister and Department. Coordinate delivery of the
Department's strategic goals through an integrated programme management
approach. Oversee the provision of effective ender human resource management and
development services to the DOT. Oversee the provision of effective corporate
management service to the DOT. Oversee the provision of international relations
support to the DOT and agencies. Oversee the provision of effective professional legal
service to the Minister, Deputy Minister and Department and its agencies including
corporate governance support and monitoring mechanisms for public entities. Oversee
the provision of internal and external communication services. Oversee the effective
management of the DOT budget. Oversee the provision of effective ICT services.
Oversee the provision of effective financial management services which are in line with
treasury prescripts and prescribed accounting principles. Oversee the provision of
sound internal audit, risk and fraud investigation services as well as strategic planning
and cluster coordination for the Department. Oversee the integration of cross modal
transport planning and facilitate the development and transformation of the transport
industry. Ensure provision of effective research, monitoring and evaluation of modal
transport policies and strategies. Ensure effective macro-sector planning within national
and provincial governments. Ensure the provision of national innovative research and
development programme, monitor and evaluate the performance of the transport sector
and coordinate the formulation of environmental policies and strategies. Oversee the
development of transport funding mechanisms and provision of relevant economical
advice. Oversee the implementation of an integrated global logistics strategy and
facilitate the coordination between all the modes of transport. Oversee the facilitation
and coordination of the development and implementation of a safe, reliable and efficient
integrated rail network and Ports. Oversee the development and alignment of rail
legislation, policies and strategies with DOT strategic objectives and international
norms and standards. Provide guidance on the development of an integrated
transportation network with sectors in the built environment and economic
development. Oversee the development, maintenance and updating of infrastructure
funding and coordinate funding needs. Oversee the alignment of rail public entities with
DOT performance management system. Oversee the development and alignment of
Port legislation, policies and strategies with DOT strategic objectives and international
norms and standards. Provide guidance on the development of an integrated Port
strategy with sectors in the built environment and economic development. Oversee the
development, maintenance and updating of infrastructure funding and coordinate
funding needs. Provide leadership in the development and implementation of safe,
reliable integrated road infrastructure and passenger transport systems. Oversee the
alignment of roads public entities with DOT performance management system.
Oversee the regulation of road safety and traffic management. Provide leadership for
the coordination of planning, development implementation and operation of a
sustainable reliable integrated road infrastructure network. Oversee the development
and implementation of road engineering standards. Oversee the management of driving
license card entity fund. Provide leadership in coordinating the development and
implementation of safe, economically viable integrated and reliable air transport and
infrastructure. Oversee the development of internationally competitive regulatory
framework for civil aviation. Oversee the planning and development of an integrated
aviation infrastructure and industry with an effective international and regional
regulatory framework. Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of aviation
safety, security and environmental regulatory frameworks. Oversee the alignment of
aviation public entities with DOT performance management system. Provide leadership
in coordinating the development and implementation of safe, economically viable
integrated and reliable maritime transport and infrastructure. Oversee the development
and alignment of legislation, policies and strategies with DOT strategic objectives and
international norms. Oversee the development and promotion of an integration of
maritime infrastructure and industry. Oversee the implementation of policy and
legislation for safety, security and maritime environmental protection and participate in
the bilateral process as defined. Oversee the alignment of maritime public entities with
36
DOT performance management system. Oversee the monitoring of Air Traffic
Navigation services and flight procedures. Oversee the effective monitoring of Air
Services Licensing Councils. Provide leadership in coordinating safe, reliable, effective,
efficient, integrated and environmentally friendly public transports systems. Oversee
the management and monitoring of the DORA grants. Oversee the development and
maintenance of policy, legislation, regulation, and coordinate and facilitate the
implementation thereof. Oversee and facilitate the implementation of public transport
strategy and action plan in urban areas. Oversee the implementation and maintenance
of the rural, scholar and non-motorised transport strategies. Oversee the development
of norms and standards and ensure the provision of support for integrated public
networks. Oversee the development and implementation of a Green Transport system.
Oversee the development and implementation of a digital modernization of the
transport system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Carmen Coetzee Tel No: (012) 309 3493
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “Director-General: Transport”
on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of Transport is an equal
opportunity employer and this post will be filled in accordance with employment equity
targets of the department.
POST 11/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: ROAD TRANSPORT REF NO: DOT/
HRM/2025/08
Branch: Road Transport
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15) of which 30% may be structured according to the
individual needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate (NQF 8) qualification in Civil Engineering / Transport Economics
and postgraduate qualification as recognised by SAQA with at least 8 years' relevant
experience at a senior management level in the transport sector. Registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineer or Engineering Technologist will be an added
advantage. Certificate of Successful completion of the National School of
Government's Senior Management Service Pre-Entry Programme. Knowledge And
Skills: A sound knowledge and experience in the development of the road infrastructure
standards and guidelines. Knowledge and understanding of the guidelines and
specifications relevant to civil engineering in South Africa. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the road infrastructure development and roads supervision.
Knowledge and understanding of the importance of community development programs
and participation. Working knowledge of PFMA, MMFA, Treasury Regulations and
GIAMA Research and Policy experience. Procurement experience & Project
Management. Compilation of management and technical reports and proposals.
Budgeting, financial management and economic skills. Communication: Verbal &
Written communication - English - above average, Computer literacy. Governance
related to information. Financial Management: Compiles and manages budgets,
controls cash flow, institutes risk management and administers tender procurement
processes in accordance with generally recognised financial practices in order to
ensure the achievement of strategic organisational objectives. Strategic Capability &
Leadership: Provides a vision, sets the direction for the component/unit and inspires
others to plan, execute, deliver and report on the organisational mandate. People
Management & Empowerment (PME): Manages and encourages people, optimises
their outputs & effectively manages relationships in order to achieve organisational
goals. Career Pathing: Promotion to next level. Progression to next level is possible
through competition for a vacant position. Compliance with the requirements of the
higher post.
DUTIES : Manage the regulation of road safety and traffic management. Manage the
development of all road traffic acts and regulations (National Road Traffic Act,
Administration Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences Act & Road Traffic Management
Act). Ensure the application of enforcement regulations. Ensure the coordination of
road safety projects and related activities. Manage the development of effective road
transport policies and strategies. Manage the coordination of the planning,
development and implementation of a sustainable reliable integrated road
Infrastructure network. Manage the coordination of road infrastructure planning.
Manage the development and implementation of rural roads development strategy and
programme. Manage the development, implementation and promotion of the use of
low-cost Non-Motorised Transport. Manage the road grants funding. Manage the
development and implementation of road engineering standards. Manage the
research, coordination of the development and updating of technical norms, standards
& guidelines and the best practice. Manage and ensure survey quality control on road
works. Manage the coordination of the development of an asset management system
for road infrastructure in compliance with the GIAMA and related asset management
37
requirements. Oversee the driving license card fund. Ensure the development and
implementation of effective policy on the management of funds. Manage the Driving
License Card Trading Entity income and expenditure. Manage the resources of the
Branch. Provide guidance and adequate support for and development of the staff.
Ensure compliance with all administrative requirements, regulations, rules and
instructions pertaining to the branch. Establish and maintain governance and
administrative system's continuity within the work of the branch. Develop financial
reports for forecasting, trending and results analysis. Prepare and submit
implementation plans. Authorise expenditure. Manage audit queries. Recommend and
/ or monitor budget levels. Monitor quality control of work. Ensure the compilation of
the annual report and strategic plan of the branch. Set budget levels. Monitor the
planning, organising and delegation of work. Ensure monitoring & evaluation is carried
out in all areas of the branch.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mathabatha Mokonyama Tel No: (012) 309 3347
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “Deputy Director-General:
Road Transport” on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of
Transport is an equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in accordance
with employment equity targets of the department.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/44 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DOT/ HRM/2025/09
Branch: Administration (Corporate Services)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management and Development
Directorate: Human Resources Development and PMDS
Sub-directorate: Internal HRD
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09), all-inclusive package and 30% in lieu of benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate (NQF 6) qualification as recognised by SAQA in Human Resources
Development / Human Resources Management / Industrial Psychology / Management
in Training / Public Management / Administration with 3 years’ experience at a
supervisory or Practitioner level in Human Resources Development. Knowledge And
Skill: Knowledge of Human Resources Development (HRD) related strategies and
applicable act, Public Service Act and the regulatory framework, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Project management skills, Computer literacy, Good
communication and writing skills; Good presentation and facilitation skills, problem-
solving, time management, planning, coordination and organizational skills.
Knowledge of Training in the train-the-trainer for various onboarding programmes in
the public service such as Compulsory Induction, Breaking the Barriers to the public
service will be an added advantage. Communication- Verbal & Written communication
- English - above average - Computer literacy. Financial Management: Compiles and
manages budgets, controls cash flow, institutes risk management and administers
tender procurement processes in accordance with generally recognised financial
practices in order to ensure the achievement of strategic organisational objectives.
Strategic Capability & Leadership (SCL): Provides a vision, sets the direction for the
component/unit and inspires others to plan, execute, deliver and report on the
organisational mandate. People Management & Empowerment (PME): Manages and
encourages people, optimises their outputs & effectively manages relationships in
order to achieve organisational goals. Annual Reports, Project/Programme
Management (PPM): Plans, manages, monitors and evaluates specific activities in
order to deliver the desired outputs and outcomes (Project Planning, Evaluation &
Reporting). Change Management: Initiates, supports and champions organisational
transformation and change in order to successfully implement new initiatives and
deliver on service delivery commitments. Career Pathing: promotion to the next level.
Progression to next level is possible through competition for a vacant position.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of departmental HRD strategy. Conduct training needs
analysis. Develop a Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) and Annual Training Report (ATR)
on an annual basis. Participate in skills development planning for various training plans
such as Annual Human Resource Development Plan. Provide inputs to Departmental
Human Resource Plan and any other skills development plan as and when required.
Facilitate the implementation of learning interventions as per the approved Workplace
Skills Plan, Skills Audit and other sources such as National School of Government
(NSG). Compile various skills development reports such as the Quarterly Monitoring
Reports to SETAs, Expenditure Reports and the Annual Training Report, Annual
Monitoring and Evaluation reports for submission to relevant stakeholders. Monitor the
submission of Post Training Evaluation reports and conduct impact of the training
(Return on Investment). Facilitate the submission of various HRD related reports to
38
stakeholders. Implement the Executive Development Programmes and Career
Development framework. Facilitate On-boarding Programmes within DOT. Coordinate
the departmental compliance with all mandatory onboarding programmes for
employees and interns in the Public Service. Facilitate the general induction for newly
appointed employees. Facilitate new entrants into Public Service on the Compulsory
Induction Programme. Liaise with the National School of Government on the
provision/delivery of various compulsory onboarding programmes. Maintain statistics
for various induction programmes and provide the relevant reports to stakeholders
when necessary. Administer Internship and Learnership Programmes. Conduct
recruitment and selection of interns/learners. Manage the administration of interns
such as internship/learnership files. Conduct Interns’ quarterly meetings. Conduct
Mentors’ quarterly meetings. Facilitate Learners’ placements and handle any other
interns’ queries. Monitor the implementation of internship programmes. Implement the
Department’s Bursary Scheme. Manage the recruitment and selection process.
Manage the administration of bursaries. Facilitate adjudication of bursary applications.
Manage the audit of bursary files. Manage bursary reports. Conduct impact analysis
for bursaries. Manage the resources of the section. Provide the necessary guidance
and supervision to subordinates. Ensure training and development of subordinates.
Monitor asset and stationery management. Manage the administration of leaves in the
section. Ensure submission of performance agreements, half-yearly reviews and
annual assessments of subordinates. Ensure compliance to all relevant public service
prescripts and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lucky Mpofu Tel No: (012) 309 3996
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “Assistant Director: Internal
HRD” on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of Transport is an
equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in accordance with employment
equity targets of the department.
POST 11/45 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: INTERNAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/10
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Directorate: HRD and PMDS
Sub-directorate: Internal Human Resource Development
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resources Development / Human Resources Management / Industrial Psychology /
Management in Training / Public Management / Administration with 2 years’ minimum
working experience in a human resource development field. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of Human Resource Development (HRD) related strategies and applicable
acts, Public Service Act and the regulatory framework, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Project management skills, Computer literacy, Good communication and
writing skills; Good presentation and facilitation skills, problem-solving, time
management, planning, coordination and organizational skills, Knowledge of Training
in the train-the-trainer for various onboarding programmes in the public service such
as Compulsory Induction, Breaking the Barriers to the public service will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide the implementation of Workplace Skills Plan (WSP), Conduct training needs
analysis, collect and capture information for the development of the WSP and Annual
Training Report (ATR), implement the training schedule, compile submissions for the
delivery of in-house courses, participate in the implementation of on-boarding
programme, coordinate the implementation of training interventions for officials,
conduct post-training evaluation and Impact of Training (ROI), Provide for the
implementation of development programmes, conduct a needs analysis for the
internship and learnerships programmes, assisting in selection & recruitment of interns
in the department, process the Internship administration, assist in allocation of interns
per relevant directorate, monitoring progress of interns and leave days, mentoring of
interns in my directorate, arrange and invite mentees and mentors for meetings,
managing and updating interns’ profile records, coordination of interns and mentors’
meetings, monitor the submission of monthly attendance registers, coordinate the
submission of testimonial letters, prepare completion certificates, organise the
ceremony for certificate awards, participate in the recruitment and selection of interns
in the department, participate in interviews and allocation of interns within the
department, monitor the submission of interns’ progress reports and attendance
registers from interns, coordinate mentees and mentors’ meetings, Monitor and update
interns’ profile records and reports, Administer interns’ leave and all other relevant
internship records, administer internship/ learnership data base, ensure overall
39
attendance & compliance with the signed contracts, Administer educational
programmes, consolidate all training databases into relevant HRD Reports such as
Quarterly Training reports, Annual Training reports as well as quarterly and annual
expenditure reports, etc, ensure the submission of post-training evaluation reports,
participate in the review of training related tools and systems, maintain accurate
recording and safe- keeping of all HRD related information, conduct benchmarking of
best practice HRD systems and practices, communicate HRD developments in the
newsletter/ e mail/ social media through the relevant channels, render general
administrative support services, Track all outstanding payments and monitor
administrative records, source out accredited training service providers, capture and
process training related application forms, conduct inventory inspection and record all
HRD assets, maintain bursary and training related databases, supervise sub-ordinates
in the section, provide support in the human resource development committee.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lucky Mpofu Tel No: (012) 309 3996
NOTE : candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “Senior Admin officer: Internal
HRD” on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of Transport is an
equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in accordance with employment
equity targets of the department.
40
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to the address
specified on each post. Applications must be submitted using the newly implemented
Z83 form obtainable on the Department of Water and Sanitations website, under career
opportunities or the DPSA website, under vacancies in the Public Service (point 4) and
should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV with full particulars of the applicants’
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). All required
information on the Z83 application form must be provided. Other related documentation
such as copies of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to
accompany the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only
be produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B of the Z83 must be completed as these fields are
regarded as compulsory and such details must also be included in the applicants CV.
For posts requiring a driver’s license, annotate such details on CV. Failure to complete
or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late,
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to suitability
checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit checks). SAQA
evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualification/s (only when shortlisted).
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be
considered. All shortlisted candidates pertaining to Senior Management Services
(SMS) posts will be subjected to a technical and competency assessment and a pre-
entry certificate obtained from the National School of government is required prior to
the appointment. Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form
and undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide
a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant
posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act
No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the
Department will be taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed
applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these
positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
preference will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/46 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 110425/01
Branch: Water Resource Management
Dir: Water Resource Development Planning
SALARY : R1 200 426 – R1 371 489 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil / Agricultural Engineering degree (B Eng/BSC (Eng). Six (6) years post
qualification experience required. Compulsory registration with the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Relevant experience in the field of Water Engineering or
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) or Integrated Environmental
Management (IEM). Ability to relate to and work with associated professional fields in
a multi-disciplinary team. Experience in planning and/or implementation of water
projects. Good Communication skills both (verbal and written). Policy and strategy
development skills.
DUTIES : To optimise and plan water resource utilisation and development in one of the
Northern, Central, Eastern or Southern Planning Regions through the evaluation of
various management/development options. Identification of available water resources
and development needs through multidisciplinary studies at appropriate levels of detail.
Involvement in the development of water management strategies. Conceptualisation
of possible solutions to meet water requirements and evaluation of technical options
and associated social, economic and environmental impacts. Coordination and
processing of inputs from a wide range of disciplines. Capacity building and mentoring
of young engineers. Professionally supervise production engineers from other planning
areas within the Directorate. Liaison with other organisations and parties on
projects/water resource related matters (at local, regional, national and international
41
level). Analyses of and recommendations on financial, legal and institutional aspects
for water resource projects. Ensure management of human resources. Provide
leadership and ensure good management and administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Fourie at 082 809 2355
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant reference
number on the subject line to: RecruitHO11@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Delta
Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to:
Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
NOTE : This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range, however, a
higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered based in relation to
the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as amended, i.e. provision of the
candidate’s current salary advice.
POST 11/47 : SCIENTIST MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: 110425/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management Head Office
Dir: Environmental Impact Monitoring
SALARY : R1 042 170 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An MSc Degree in the following fields: Applied Geology / Geological Sciences or
relevant science qualification. Six (6) years post BSc Natural Scientific experience.
Compulsory registration with the South African Council of Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a Professional Natural Scientist in the fields of practice
Geological Sciences or Earth Sciences. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Experience in the following fields will serve as an added advantage:
Engineering Geology, Soil Mechanics, Rock Mechanics. Working knowledge of
National Water Act, 1998 (Act No 36 of 1998), Dam Safety Regulations, 2012 (No.
35062) and related policies. Computer literacy. Working knowledge of relevant
Engineering Geological and Geotechnical Engineering legislation and related policies.
Knowledge of PFMA. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to
review technical and scientific reports and provide recommendations. Technical report
writing skills. Ability to provide technical and scientific support to Department of Water
and Sanitation (DWS) units and other government departments. Professional
Judgment. Good communication, presentation, and networking skills. People
management and mentoring of candidate scientists. Planning, organising, conflict
management and change management. Excellent problem solving and analysis. The
ability to work independently, to interact with communities, Professional Service
Providers (PSPs) and planning partners in the water sector. Willingness to travel
extensively all over the country and work irregular hours. Knowledge of programme
and project management. Working knowledge of research and development.
Computer aided scientist applications. Creation of high-performance culture. Sound
administrative skills and demonstrated commitment to service delivery.
DUTIES : Leadership and management of sub-directorate geotechnical and geological services.
Provision of geological services towards the development, maintenance, rehabilitation,
and refurbishment of bulk water infrastructure projects. This includes amongst others,
the development, supervision, and management of geological and geotechnical
investigation programmes at various construction phases and the development of
Tender documentation, financial proposals, and Terms of References. Management of
soil and rock laboratory testing programmes for earth and concrete dams, dam
construction materials and problem soils. Knowledge of codes of practice for
development on problem soils and dolomitic land for water infrastructure.
Development, management and supervision of foundation and material investigation
programmes and reports for the design and construction of Category II and III dams,
sourcing of construction materials and modelling probabilities of failure in slopes,
embankments, and reservoirs. Professional Team Member as per Dam Safety
Regulations for geological requirements in Category II and III dams. Compilation of
Environmental Management Programmes for geotechnical investigations. Provide
technical inputs to DWS civil engineering projects. Provide technical support to
regional and cluster offices on projects. Represent the Department in various fora
including participation in the technical committee meetings for projects. Assist in the
management of PSPs where required. Attend meetings and manage conflict among
various stakeholders during the implementation of geological and geotechnical
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Maluleke Tel No: (012) 336 8875
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant reference
number on the subject line to: RecruitHO11@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Delta
Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to:
Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
42
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
POST 11/48 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A (ELECTRICAL) REF NO:
110425/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern (Technical Services)
Re-advertisement, applicant who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R873 840 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort: Northern Operations Cluster office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology(B-Tech) in Electrical Engineering or relevant. Six (6) years
post qualification Engineering Technologist experience. Compulsory registration with
Engineering Council of South African (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technologist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge and
Experience of Works Management and SAP PM will be advantageous. Advanced
experience in Budgeting Expenditure Control. Knowledge of Operations and
Maintenance management (O&M), project management, contracts management and
procurement processes (SCM). Knowledge of legal compliance and technical report
writing. Good communication skills both (verbal and written), conflict management and
negotiation skills. Problem solving and analysis, decision making, teamwork, creativity,
financial management, people management, customer focus, responsiveness,
planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Work in the cluster office Technical Services sub directorate as one of the technical
leaders that supports Area Offices. Manage Water Infrastructure O&M work streams
with technical support from a team of Engineers, Technologist, Technicians, Artisans
and Associates in the field. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements. Lead work streams that involve evaluation of existing
technical manuals, standard drawings, and procedures to incorporate new technology.
Manage execution of CAPEX projects through Term Contractors. Ensure quality
assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize, make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage administrative
activities, human resources and related functions. Financial Management and provide
inputs into the budgeting process, operational plan, procurement plan and related
matters. Compile and submit reports as required. Participate in cluster-performance
enabling committees such as OHS Committee, Disposal committee, BID committees,
security forums, MANCO and as per operations need. Attend to Risk and Disaster
Management matters. Research and Development through continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters. Must be prepared to work away from
the office and travel extensively across the Area office footprint, Cluster office footprint
and nationally for Chief Directorate’s business calls. Provide mentorship and
supervision of personnel. Research / literature studies and technical engineering
technology to improve expertise. This is one of the Senior Technical roles in the cluster
therefore, the candidate is required to have good leadership skills and will be expected
to mentor the junior technical personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane at 087 943 3702
APPLICATIONS : Hartbeespoort: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number
on the subject line to: NOPSRecruitHBP@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to Old
Rustenburg Road, 8 Forrel street, Hartbeespoort, 0216 or post to Hartbeespoort Area
Office, Private Bag X 352, Hartbeespoort, 0216.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/49 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 110425/04
Branch: Water Resource Management
Dir: Water Resources Management Planning
Sd: Water Quality Planning
SALARY : R721 476 – R1 084 368 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer will be
based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Science degree (BSc) (Hon) in Chemistry, Biochemistry or Microbiology. Three (3)
years post qualification natural scientific experience. Compulsory registration with the
South African Council of Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a Professional
Natural Scientist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Extensive
knowledge of, and relevant experience in water quality management. Computer
literacy. A sound knowledge and the ability to integrate the management of water
quality into the holistic management of water resources. Must possess excellent written
and verbal communication skills. Good comprehension skills. He/she must possess
43
the ability to interpret data and information, and the ability to work with a wide range of
stakeholders.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will join a team of professionals responsible for strategic
water resource planning, focusing on water quality through the development and
maintenance of integrated water quality planning solutions. This requires conducting
assessment studies to address data and information gaps and needs for water quality
planning. Responsible for forward planning utilising predictive modelling tools, among
other methods. He/she will formulate planning goals, including the determination of
Water Quality Planning Limits. Responsible for intervention planning through scenario
analysis, reconciliation and allocation of water quality, and the development of
programmes, thematic plans and strategies to maintain or improve water resource
quality in catchments. Provision of water quality planning decision support and related
management information in support of the implementation of water quality
interventions. Provision of water quality planning related capacity building. Contribute
to providing national and strategic guidance or advice on resource directed water
quality management and water quality planning. Assisting in the planning and
conducting of studies or projects, as well as to in the writing and compilation of
technical scientific reports and documents. The activities will also relate to the
development, implementation and refinement of policies, strategies, guidelines and
methodologies related to water quality planning and management. Promote integrated
planning through stakeholder participation, coordination and management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Viljoen Tel No: (012) 336 7514
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant reference
number on the subject line to: RecruitHO11@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Delta
Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to:
Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
POST 11/50 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A (CIVIL) REF NO: 110425/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern (Operations Management)
SALARY : R522 741 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort Area office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post qualification technical civil
engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. Experience with water
control management would be an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s licence. Advanced experience in People Management and General
Administration. Project Management, Contract Management and treasury processes
and regulations. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Problem
Solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Creativity. Financial Management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer Skills. Planning and
organizing. People Management.
DUTIES : This role is responsible for leading the operations section (schemes) of the Area Office.
Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers, Technologist
and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities. Ensure the promotion
of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize/make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage administrative and
related functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan. Ensure the development, implementation and maintenance
databases. Manage, supervise and control technical and related personnel and assets.
Research and Development. Continuous professional development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Revenue and Supply Chain
Management. Manage Occupational Health and Safety in the workplace. Responsible
for the financial management of the section. Responsible for human resource
management of the section. General office management of the section. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane at 087 943 3702
APPLICATIONS : Hartbeespoort: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number
on the subject line to: NOPSRecruitHBP@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to Old
Rustenburg Road, 8 Forrel street, Hartbeespoort, 0216 or post to Hartbeespoort Area
Office, Private Bag X 352, Hartbeespoort, 0216.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
44
POST 11/51 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A (MECHANICAL) REF NO:
110425/06
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern (Maintenance Management)
SALARY : R522 741 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort Area Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering. Six (6) years post qualification
technical mechanical engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Project Management, Contract
Management and treasury processes and regulations. Research and Development.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical Consulting.
Problem Solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Creativity. Financial
Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer Skills.
Planning and organizing. People Management. Experience with leading a team of
artisans to execute maintenance activities will be an added advantage. Advanced
experience in Budgeting Expenditure Control. Advanced experience in People
Management and General Administration.
DUTIES : This role will be responsible for leading the technical workshop of the Area office
(Mechanical, Electrical, civil and housing workshops). The role will also manage
technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers, Technologist and
associates in the field, workshop and technical office activities. Ensure the promotion
of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize/make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage administrative and
related functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan. Ensure the development, implementation and maintenance
databases. Manage, supervise and control technical and related personnel and assets
(Including OPEX and CAPEX projects). Research and Development. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve expertise.
Revenue and Supply Chain Management. Responsible for the financial management
of the section. General office management of the section to liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters. The role involves intensive travelling
to various sites withing the Northern Operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane at 087 943 3702
APPLICATIONS : Hartbeespoort: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number
on the subject line to: NOPSRecruitHBP@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to Old
Rustenburg Road, 8 Forrel street, Hartbeespoort, 0216 or post to Hartbeespoort Area
Office, Private Bag X352, Hartbeespoort, 0216.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/52 : CONTROL SURVEY TECHNICIAN GRADE A (SURVEY SERVICES) REF NO:
110425/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R522 741 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Levubu
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Surveying (T or N Stream) or relevant qualification. Six (6) years
post qualification technical survey experience. Compulsory registration with the South
African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a Surveyor / Survey technician in respect of the
Professional Land Surveyors and Technical Surveyors in respect of Act of 1984, (Act
40 of 1984). The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Project Management
and planning skills. Supervisory skills. Financial management skills. Interpersonal
relationship skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Physical fitness.
Computer literacy skills preferable in MS Excel, MS Word and MS Power Point. CAD
and survey calculation packages in particular Model Maker, MS Office and Hypack.
Practical experience in, Topographical surveys, Hydrographical surveys and Cadastral
surveys. Be fully conversant with GPS and other survey equipment (Total Stations,
Digital levels etc.). Good Leadership qualities. A valid skipper’s license category R
power driven vessels will be an added advantage. Candidates may be subjected to a
skills and knowledge test.
DUTIES : Perform and supervise Topographical surveys to produce contour plans for
infrastructures design and construction purposes. Hydrographical surveys for
dams/weirs capacity calculations as well as monitoring siltation rate of dams and weirs.
45
Cadastral surveys for determination of servitudes and purchase lines of state
properties and check against illegal land encroachments. Make use of computer aided
software to produce final maps and reports. Perform survey duties away from home
and office and must be able to travel excessive distances. Planning, performing,
supervising, and evaluating Topographical surveys, Hydrographical surveys, Cadastral
surveys, and ground control beacons for aerial surveys. Supervise the operation of
GPS Static and Real Time Kinematic surveys. Training and supervision of Survey
Technicians and Assistant Survey personnel. Compile specifications for procurement
of survey equipment and services. Manage the supervision of equipment maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane at 087 943 3702
APPLICATIONS : Hartbeespoort: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number
on the subject line to: NOPSRecruitHBP@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to Old
Rustenburg Road, 8 Forrel street, Hartbeespoort, 0216 or post to Hartbeespoort Area
Office, Private Bag X352, Hartbeespoort, 0216.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/53 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (SURVEY SERVICES) REF NO:
110425/08
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R371 253 – R556 080 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years of
experience)
CENTRE : Levubu
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Surveying (T or N Stream) or relevant qualification. Three (3)
years post qualification technical survey experience. Compulsory registration with the
South African Geomatics Council as a Surveyor/Surveyor Technician in respect of the
Land Surveyors and Technical Surveyors Act of 1984, (Act 40 of 1984). The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Project Management skills. Good written and
verbal communication skills. Physical fitness. Computer literacy skills preferable in MS
Excel, MS Word and MS Power Point. CAD and survey calculation packages in
particular Model Maker, MS Office, Hypack and Trimble business Centre. Practical
experience: Topographic- and detail surveys, Hydrographic Surveys and Cadastral
Surveys. Be fully conversant with GPS and other survey equipment (Total Stations,
levels etc.). Good Leadership qualities. A valid skipper’s license category R power
driven vessels will be an added advantage. Candidates may be subjected to a skills
and knowledge test.
DUTIES : Perform Topographical surveys to produce contour plans for infrastructures design and
construction purposes. Hydrographical surveys for dams/weirs capacity calculations
as well as monitoring siltation rate of dams and weirs. Cadastral surveys for
determination of servitudes and purchase lines of state properties and check against
illegal land encroachments. Make use of computer aided software to produce final
maps and reports. Perform duties away from home and the office and must be able to
travel excessive distances. Planning, performing, supervising, and evaluating
Topographical surveys, Hydrographical surveys, Cadastral surveys, and ground
control beacons for aerial surveys. Operate GPS for rapid static, real-time kinematic
surveys. Training in assisting survey personnel. Perform administrative and related
functions. Execute ad hoc tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane at 087 943 3702
APPLICATIONS : Hartbeespoort: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number
on the subject line to: NOPSRecruitHBP@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to Old
Rustenburg Road, 8 Forrel street, Hartbeespoort, 0216 or post to Hartbeespoort Area
Office, Private Bag X352, Hartbeespoort, 0216.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/54 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (MECHANICAL) REF NO: 110425/09
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir Operations Northern
Sub Div: Maintenance
SALARY : R362 130 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Groblersdal Area Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Fitter and Turner Trade Test Certificate. Five (5) years post qualification
experience as an Artisan Mechanical field (Fitter and Turner). The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of technical analysis, computer-aided
applications, legal compliance, technical report writing and production, process
knowledge and skills. Problem solving and analytical decision making, teamwork and
analytical skills. Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication skills both (verbal and written) and computer literacy. Planning and
46
organising skills. Conflict management. Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act, PMDS and PFMA.
Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
DUTIES : Supervise the design and production of technical services. Supervise maintenance of
technical services, perform administrative and related functions. Human capital
resources management. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements, and
regulations. Compile and submit technical report as required. Maintenance of bulk raw
water infrastructure. Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Ensure
adherence to safety standards, requirements, and regulations. Implement planned
maintenance and update maintenance logbooks. Compile and submit reports as
required. Supervise and mentor staff. Continuous individual development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6800
APPLICATIONS : Groblersdal: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number on
the subject to: NOPSRecruitGDL@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Physical Address,
Dept of Water and Sanitation,R25 Bronkhorspruit Road, Aquaville, 0470 or post to: The
Area Manager: Groblersdal Area Manager, Groblersdal Area Office, Private Bag
X8616, Groblersdal, 0470.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/55 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (ELECTRICAL) REF NO: 110425/10
Branch: Infrastructure Management Northern Operations
Dir Operations Northern
SALARY : R230 898 - R386 775 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years of
experience)
CENTRE : Groblersdal Area office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Electrical Trade Test Certificate. Two (2) years working as an Artisan Aid
will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Knowledge of SANS 10142-1&2. Knowledge of air-conditioning and refrigeration will
be an added advantage. Ability to work in a team. Experience of production process
and skills. Technical report writing skills. Experience of Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Experience of legal compliance. Computer aided technical applications and
computer literacy. Good communication skills. Technical analysis and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Maintenance of electrical installations in various dams, reservoirs, departmental
houses, pump stations, machinery, repeater stations, dam walls and pipelines.
Electrical maintenance and inspections of cathodic protection (TRUs). Inspect
equipment for technical faults and repair according to standards. Service equipment
according to schedule. Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Ensure
adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations. Implement planned
maintenance and update maintenance logbooks. Compile and submit reports as
required. Individual / personal development to keep up with new technologies. Compile
and submits technical reports. Keep and maintain job records/ register and supervise
and mentor staff. Willingness to travel and ability to work long hours, perform standby
duties and perform well under pressure. Candidates may be required to complete a
practical and theoretical test.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6800
APPLICATIONS : Groblersdal: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number on
the subject to: NOPSRecruitGDL@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Physical Address,
Dept of Water and Sanitation,R25 Bronkhorspruit Road, Aquaville, 0470 or post to: The
Area Manager: Groblersdal Area Manager, Groblersdal Area Office, Private Bag
X8616, Groblersdal, 0470.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/56 : ARTISAN GRADE A-C (CIVIL) REF NO: 110425/11
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir Operations Northern (Maintenance)
SALARY : R230 898 - R386 775 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years of
experience)
CENTRE : Groblersdal Area office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Carpentry. Two (2) years working as an Artisan
Aid will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Planning, organising and analytical skills. Technical report writing skills.
Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to work independently as
well as in a team. Computer literacy. Good communication skills and ability to work
long hours and perform well under pressure. Technical analysis and problem-solving
47
skills. Willingness to travel. Candidates may be required to complete a practical and
theoretical test.
DUTIES : Maintenance of civil carpentry installations or structures in various dams, reservoirs,
departmental houses, pump stations, machinery, dam walls and pipelines. Perform
repairs on assets as per need. Inspect equipment for technical faults and repair
according to standards. Service equipment according to schedule. Supervise Civil
Maintenance Foreman, Artisan Aids and General Workers. Ensure quality assurance
in line with specifications. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and
regulations. Implement planned maintenance and update maintenance logbooks.
Compile and submit reports as required. Individual / personal development to keep up
with new technologies. Compile and submits technical reports. Keep and maintain job
records/ register and supervise and mentor staff. Willingness to travel and ability to
work long hours, perform standby duties and perform well under pressure. Perform
performance reviews for Civil Maintenance personnel. Candidates may be required to
complete a practical and theoretical test.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6800
APPLICATIONS : Groblersdal: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number on
the subject to: NOPSRecruitGDL@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Physical Address,
Dept of Water and Sanitation,R25 Bronkhorspruit Road, Aquaville, 0470 or post to: The
Area Manager: Groblersdal Area Manager, Groblersdal Area Office, Private Bag
X8616, Groblersdal, 0470.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
POST 11/57 : ARTISAN GRADE A-C (MECHANICAL) REF NO: 110425/12
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern (Maintenance)
SALARY : R230 898 - R386 775 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years of
experience)
CENTRE : Groblersdal Area office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Fitter and Turner Trade Test Certificate. Two (2) years working as an
Artisan Aid will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Knowledge of technical analysis, computer-aided applications, legal
compliance, technical report writing and production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analytical decision making, teamwork and analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness. Communication
skills both (verbal and written) and computer literacy. Planning and organising skills.
Conflict management. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Act, PMDS and PFMA. Candidates may be required
to complete a practical and theoretical test.
DUTIES : Maintenance of mechanical installations in various dams, reservoirs, departmental
houses, pump stations, machinery, dam walls and pipelines. Responsible of laying and
assembly and maintenance of mechanical piping systems. Inspect equipment for
technical faults and repair according to standards. Service equipment according to
schedule. Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Ensure adherence to
safety standards, requirements and regulations. Implement planned maintenance and
update maintenance logbooks. Compile and submit reports as required. Individual /
personal development to keep up with new technologies. Compile and submits
technical reports. Keep and maintain job records / register and supervise and mentor
staff. Willingness to travel and ability to work long hours, perform standby duties and
perform well under pressure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6800
APPLICATIONS : Groblersdal: Please email your application quoting the relevant reference number on
the subject to: NOPSRecruitGDL@dws.gov.za or hand deliver to: Physical Address,
Dept of Water and Sanitation,R25 Bronkhorspruit Road, Aquaville, 0470 or post to: The
Area Manager: Groblersdal Area Manager, Groblersdal Area Office, Private Bag
X8616, Groblersdal, 0470.
FOR ATTENTION : HR Section
48
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you may
forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private Bag X931,
Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to 268 Lilian
Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria CBD. Another option is to
submit application through email as a single scanned document/one PDF attachment
to the email addresses specified for each position (kindly note that the emailed
applications and attachments should not exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Mr Zuko Bebula Tel No: (012) 359 0417/ Mr Joseph
Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 359 0238
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded from:
http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the old
application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83 application
form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection committee to assess
the quality of a candidate based on the information provided in the form. It is therefore
prudent that fields be completed by applicants and signed, noting the importance of
the declaration. South African applicants need not to provide passport numbers.
Candidate must respond “Yes“ or “No“ to the question whether you are conducting
business with the state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit
Declaration form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the
application. It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to
the question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit the completed
and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The communication from HR of the
Department regarding the requirement for certified document will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for a post will be required
to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from HR. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must
submit a copy only when shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department
within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill and/or
make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed candidates may be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job as part of the selection process, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. Successful candidates shall be required to enter into performance
agreement within three (3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and
within one (1) month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract
of employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be made on
the first notch of the advertised salary level. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to personal security vetting. Note that in terms of the Protection of Personal Information
Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the protection of applicants ‘personal information
and only collect, use and retain applicants’ personal information for the purposes of
recruitment and selection processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal
information against access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches.
The Department is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into consideration and
preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/58 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: MONITORING, EVALUATION, RESEARCH AND
COORDINATION REF NO: DWYPD/007/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), full inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
49
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate, appropriate post graduate
qualification (NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA in Social Science, Development
Studies or relevant qualifications; and (NQF level 9) and above qualification will be an
added advantage; Certificate of Successful completion of the National School of
Government’s SMS Pre-Entry programme prior appointment. A minimum of 8 years
experience at a senior managerial level. Proven experience in activism in the gender,
youth and disability activisms; development, review and implementation of legislation
and policies on socio-economic transformation, participation and empowerment of
women, youth and persons with disabilities; stakeholder management at executive and
community levels; management of gender-, youth- and disability-responsive planning,
budgeting, monitoring evaluation and audit. Intimate knowledge of the legislative
framework and regulatory requirement related to gender, youth and disability
empowerment and participation; policy formulation, interpretation and implementation
within government; socio-economic policy framework; international commitments and
instruments relevant to gender, youth and disability advocacy and mainstreaming;
mandate and strategic objectives of the Department.
DUTIES : Provide transversal services in relation to Research, Knowledge Management,
Internation Relations; Stakeholder Management and Monitoring and Evaluation for
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities. Ensure research and knowledge
management on the transformation and rights of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; develop and implement a research strategy on transformation and rights
of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; establish and manage a centralised
evidence-based knowledge hub on Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities
transformation issues. Manage and coordinate the provision of international relations,
stakeholder participation and capacity building for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; manage the provision of international relations promoting the rights of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; manage and coordinate stakeholder
participation in programmes promoting the rights of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; coordinate capacity building on mainstreaming for Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities. Ensure effective government-wide monitoring and evaluation
of policy priorities towards the transformation and empowerment of Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities; monitor the implementation of key priorities and government-
wide interventions towards the transformation and empowerment of Women, Youth
and Persons with Disabilities; evaluate the effectiveness and impact achieved towards
the transformation and empowerment of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities.
Management of the Branch: Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Coordination:
effective, efficient and economic management of the Budget Programme and
respective Sub Programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment03@dwypd.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 11/59 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, STAKEHOLDER
MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO: DWYPD/008/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 436 002 per annum (Level 14), fully inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and an appropriate
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Information Management/Social Sciences,
Development Studies as recognised by SAQA; Certificate of Successful completion of
National School of the Government’s SMS Pre-Entry programme prior appointment; A
minimum of 5 years experience at a senior managerial level. Proven experience in
activism in the gender, youth and disabilities sectors; government policies and
programmes analysis and consolidation; governance matters related to gender, youth
and persons with disabilities; international relations, outreach programmes,
stakeholder management at executive and community levels. Intimate knowledge of
the legislative framework and regulatory requirements related to gender, youth and
disability empowerment and participation; policy formulation, interpretation and
implementation within government; international commitments and instruments
relevant to gender, youth and disability advocacy and mainstreaming; mandate and
strategic objectives of the Department.
DUTIES : To manage and coordinate the provision of international relations, stakeholder
participation and capacity building for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities.
Manage the provision of international relations promoting the rights of Women, Youth
and Persons with Disabilities; promote alignment of national laws, legislation and
policies to global, regional and sub-regional instruments to advance global integration;
coordinate reporting on South Africa’s compliance with and performance in relation to
national, international, regional and continental commitments; facilitate the
50
establishment of mutually beneficial bilateral relations with strategic countries; manage
and promote participation of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities in bilateral
and multilateral platforms to influence global agenda and decision-making. Manage
and coordinate stakeholder participation in programmes promoting the rights of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; manage and coordinate inter-
governmental relations to advance the rights of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; develop interactive platforms for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities to articulate their concerns, needs and challenges; engage other
stakeholders on socio-economic transformation and implementation of rights of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; coordinate case management and
establish referral and follow-up mechanisms; develop and maintain stakeholder
databases; coordinate National Machineries for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; provide technical support and advisory services to stakeholders across all
spheres of Government on transformation and rights of Women, Youth and Persons
with Disabilities; coordinate capacity building on mainstreaming for Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities. Management of the Sub Programme: manage the human
and financial resources of the Chief Directorate; manage and report the strategic
performance; manage risk mitigation and implement internal control systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 11/60 : DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND WORK ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DWYPD/009/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), fully inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and an appropriate
Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in Security Administration/ Management/Policing as
recognised by SAQA; Certificate of Successful completion of National School of the
Government’s SMS Pre-Entry programme prior appointment; Registration with PSIRA
will be added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. Knowledge of Legislative framework on security and the MISS
document, Provisions of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) Public service
Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Departmental policies and applicable
protocols; Departmental governance framework and mandate, Security Management,
SA legislative framework especially the National Strategic Intelligence Act of 1994 as
amended, Occupational Health and Safety, Regulations and SHERQ, Department’s
Strategic objectives.
DUTIES : Manage the leasing, allocation, maintenance, refurbishment and renovation of offices
in the Department; manage the implementation of lease contract and ensure proper
documentation, engage with the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure and
other service providers on issues pertaining to facilities, plan and manage office
allocation and inter-office movement, respond to emergency and systems failures, plan
and manage the cleaning, maintenance, refurbishment and renovations and fleet
management; Ensure compliance with environmental health and safety standards in
the Department; conduct health and safety awareness campaigns, ensure that
evacuation drills are conducted annually, develop and implement healthy safety
policies, ensure that health and safety equipment and clothing is allocated to safety
officers, ensure the appointment and training of the OHS Committee members in line
with Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 ( ACT 85 of 4993) as amended, develop
and implement the Contingency Plan for evacuation purposes; Manage the provision
of physical and information security in the Department; ensure the implementation of
the Minimum Information Security, Standards document, ensure the implementation of
access and egress and egress control, ensure effective implementation of protection
information measures, ensure the security screening and vetting of personnel,
contractors and consultants, engage SAPS and State Security Agency on physical and
information security appraisals, ensure the application of Technical Surveillance
Counter Measures (TSCM) in relevant offices, ensure the establishment and
appointment of the security committee members, manage the Service Level
Agreement (SLA) with appointed service provider; Oversee wate disposal, cleaning,
parking and fleet management in the Department; Coordination of security cluster
during Departmental event; ensure the application for the categorization of the event
by SAPS, application to SSA for accreditation and security screening of service
provider and ensure that the Department appoints qualified Health Inspector for
events.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment04@dwypd.gov.za
51
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
52
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be addressed to various institution as per the applicant’s need:
Provincial Office: Please forward your application quoting the relevant reference
number, Department of Social Development, Old Standard Bank Building Private Bag
X20616, 14 Charlotte Maxeke & Wesburger Street, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Email to
Recruitment@fssocdev.gov.za
Tshireletsong Child & Youth Care Centre: Please forward your application quoting
the relevant reference number, Department of Social Development, Tshireletsong
Child & Youth Care Centre, Phola Park, Next to Legae High School, Bochabela,
Bloemfontein,9323 or Email to Recruitment.Tshireletsong@fssocdev.gov.za
Thekolohelong Welfare Centre: Please forward your application quoting the relevant
reference number, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X850 Witsieshoek
9866 or hand deliver to Department of Social Development 6065 Phatsoane
Phuthaditjaba 9866 or Email to Recruitment.Thekolohelong@fssocdev.gov.za
Thabo Mofutsanyana District (Bethlehem Office): Department of Social
Development, Johan Blignaut Street, Sederhof Building, Bethlehem 9700 or Email to
Recruitment.Bethlehem@fssocdev.gov.za
Leratong Child & Youth Care Centre: Please forward your application quoting the
relevant reference number, Department of Social Development, 1809 Mokhethi Street
Phuthaditjhaba 9866 or Email to Recruitment.Leratong@fssocdev.gov.za
Matete Matches Secure Care Centre: Please forward your application quoting the
relevant reference number, Plot 39 Smaldeel Road, Maokeng, 9499 or hand deliver to
Department of Social Development, Matete Matches, Plot 39 Smaldeel Road,
Maokeng, 9499 or Email to Recruitment.Matete@fssocdev.gov.za
Xhariep District: Please forward your application quoting the relevant reference
number, Department of Social Development, 15 Dawid Street Trompsburg 9913 or
Email to Recruitment.Xhariep@fssocdev.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective 01January
2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Please ensure that the specific reference
number is quoted correctly. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully
completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents
to HR on or before the day of the interview: should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA) when submitted. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will disqualify your application. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check
(criminal record check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification and
previous employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application documents will result
in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has
already been appointed. The Department reserves the right not to make
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Persons with disability and people from
previously disadvantaged groups are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/61 : MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GRADE 1: REF NO: DSDFS 13/25) (X1
POST)
SALARY : R920 082 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus appropriate three year tertiary qualification. A minimum
of 10 years recognizable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualifications. Knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, Treasury Regulation
and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of funding policy of the Department of
Social Development. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
53
DUTIES : Manage the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated development
interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant stakeholders
through efficient, effective and economical utilization of resources by the unit/sub
directorate. Monitor, interpret and review legislation and policies to determine whether
legislation and policies are still relevant and comply with current requirements. Develop
proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts and policies, and develop new policies
where required. Manage community development unit/sub directorate to ensure that
an efficient and effective community development service is delivered through the
proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new
developments in the community development and management fields to enhance
service delivery. Plan and ensure that research on community development is
undertaken. Undertake/facilitate complex community development research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W. Direko at 066 487 6191
POST 11/62 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1: REF NO: DSDFS 14/25 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R920 082 per annum
CENTRE : Xhariep District (Smithfield Office)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work. Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as Social Worker. A Minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Social Work after registration as Social Worker
with SACSSP including four years supervisory/middle management experience.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of highest, most advanced and specialized nature within
(a) defined area(s) or specialization with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the
relevant programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Attend to any other matter that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Facilitate the development
and planning of programmes and interventions to render a social work service through
the efficient, economical and effective utilization of financial resources. Manage a
social work unit to ensure that an efficient and effective social work service is delivered
through the efficient and effective utilization of human resources. Keep up to date with
new developments in the social work and management fields. Perform and or ensure
that all the administrative functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mjacu at 062 464 8445
POST 11/63 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GRADE 1: REF NO:
DSDFS 15/25 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R570 957 per annum
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyana District (Bethlehem Office)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus appropriate three-year tertiary qualification. A Minimum
of 8 years’ recognizable experience in Community Development. Computer literacy.
Valid driver’s license (Motor Vehicle).
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with other relevant stakeholders through the
efficient, effective and economical utilisation of resources by the service delivery
area(s). Co-ordinate and manage a community development service delivery area(s)
to ensure that an efficient and effective community development service is delivered
through the proper utilisation of human, financial and physical resources. Keep up-to-
date with new developments in the community development and management fields
to enhance service delivery. Plan and ensure that research on community
development is undertaken including the facilitation of complex community
development research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Litabe at 066 486 6749
POST 11/64 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: REF NO: DSDFS 17/25 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R452 667 per annum
CENTRE : Tshireletsong Child & Youth Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work. Current Registration with the South
African Council for Social Services Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. A
minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in Social Work.
DUTIES : Render Social work services regarding the care, support, protection and development
of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities through the relevant
programs. Attend to any other matter that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form. Supervise and advise social workers, social auxiliary workers and
volunteer to ensure an effective social work service. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields. Supervise all administrative
functions required in the unit and undertake the higher levels administrative functions.
54
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Speelman at 066 487 5955
POST 11/65 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER GRADE 1: REF NO: DSDFS 16/25 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R429 573 – R487 650 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work. Current Registration with the South
African Council for Social Services Professions (SACSSP). A minimum of 8 years’
experience in Social Work.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain social work policies: monitor, interpret and review
legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether the legislation, policies and
procedures are still relevant and comply with current requirements; Develop proposals
to amend/maintain the relevant acts, policies and procedures and develop new
policies/procedures where required, including costing the policies; Develop
programmes to implement the relevant policies. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field, study professional journals and publications to
ensure that cognizance is taken of new developments; Monitor and study the social
services legal and policy framework continuously; Liaise/attend meetings with other
departments, non-government institutions and relevant stakeholders to take
cognizance of the latest developments in the relevant fields; Engage in continuous
professional development activities as prescribed; Research and development,
Perform the administrative functions required in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jafta at 066 487 6135
POST 11/66 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 2 (GENERAL NURSING – PN-A3) REF NO: DSD
18/25 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R307 473 per annum
Grade 2: R375 480 per annum
Grade 3: R451 533 per annum
CENTRE : Thekolohelong Welfare Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma/Degree in Nursing. Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council. Candidates are expected to have the recognizable applicable
experience as determined by the OSD in terms of the different grades. Know nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other applicable legislations. The
candidate must have good communication skills, both verbal and written and able to
work in a team. Candidate must have good ethical practice and a caring attitude.
Manage workplace discipline and have an in-depth knowledge and understanding of
Batho-Pele principles. Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related
legal and ethical nursing practices. Demonstrate a basic understanding of Human
Resource and Financial policies and practices. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing
standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote quality of nursing care
as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards as determined by the
relevant health facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Jikeka Tel No: 066 485 9596
POST 11/67 : CHILD & YOUTH CARE WORKER TEAM LEADER GRADE 1 REF NO: DSDFS
19/25 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R184 455 per annum
CENTRE : Matete Matches Secure Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/National Certificate (Vocational). Registered with the South African Council
for Social Services Professions (SACSSP) as a registered Child and Youth Care
Worker. A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in Child and Youth Care Work
after obtaining the require qualification.
DUTIES : Serve as a team leader for Child and Youth care worker during a shift. Undertake
inspections during a shift and report on incidents Serve as a team leader for Child and
Youth care Worker during a shift. Undertake inspections during a shift and report on
incidents and problems identified. Perform administrative work relevant to the job.
Assist with the care of children as the need arise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ramokhele at 062 520 3377
55
POST 11/68 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE WORKER GRADE 1 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R174 711 per annum, (The grade and salary on appointment will be determined by the
successful candidate’s previous appropriate experience)
CENTRE : Tshireletsong Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No: DSDFS 20/25 (X2 Posts)
Leratong Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No: DSDFS 21/25 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (grade 12). FET level 4 will be an added
advantage. Relevant qualification that allows for registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP); Registration with the SACSSP as a
registered Child and Youth Care Worker.
DUTIES : Receive children and youth to the care facility after admission. Ensure that
children/youth receive medical services. Assist with the implementation of planned
activities, developmental and therapeutic programmes. Engage in basic life space
work to promote the development and care of children and youth. Perform
administrative work relevant to the job.
ENQUIRIES : Tshireletsong Child & Youth Care Centre: Mr. M Speelman at 066 487 5955
Leratong Child & Youth Care Center: Ms. T Nhlapo at 066 485 9783
56
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the above position, please apply online at
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za or Hand Deliver: Ground floor 56 Eloff Street,
Umnotho House, Johannesburg
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364 – Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025, 16h00. No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the NEW
Z.83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Applications with the OLD Z.83 form will not be considered.
A NEW Z.83 form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the applicant.
A recent, comprehensive CV, specifying all qualifications and experience, with
respective dates must accompany the application form. Applications are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application.
Communication regarding certified documents will be limited only to the shortlisted
candidates. Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) is required before the appointment can be made. Enrolment for the course
should be made on the NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job. Following
the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification. Note: For assistance with online
applications, visit the following centres: 78 Fox Street, Marshalltown or Maponya Mall
at Thuso House next to Home Affairs. It is the Department intention to promote equity
through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan
(Coloreds and Indians are encouraged apply). To facilitate this process successfully,
an indication of race, gender and disability status is required. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). General information.
The Department will not accept posted and emailed applications. The Gauteng
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development reserves the right to fill or not fill the
advertised posts. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/69 : CHIEF DIRECTOR- COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO: REFS/022203/
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Law, Environmental Law, Natural Science
or relevant qualification on (NQF 7) within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience at a senior managerial level within compliance
and monitoring sector. Recommended candidate will be required to complete the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) before the appointment can be
made. Enrolment for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Knowledge of Environmental Management, Environmental
Management authorization support, Environmental impact Assessment regulations,
Environmental management systems, Understanding of Environmental Management
issues in relation to authorizations as well as applicable legal requirements and
processes. Understanding of government standard administrative procedures,
Knowledge of business planning and budgeting methodologies, Understanding of HR
practices and procedures, Financial and Procurement administrative procedures
(PFMA & Treasury Regulations). Research and analytics skills. Proven Leadership and
Management, Coordination skills, Organisational and planning, Communication skills
(written and spoken), Relationship Management, Stakeholder engagement,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change management.
Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation (SDI Problem Solving and
Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer
57
Focus, Strategic, analytical, and creative thinking. Innovative and proactive. Attributes:
Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability
to work in a team and independently. Strong Management skills. Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
DUTIES : Manage and provide strategic leadership to the Chief Directorate and contribute to the
relevant programmes and responsibilities within the Branch: Regulatory Compliance
and Sector Monitoring. Ensure effective management of teams and programmes within
the department that monitor and promote compliance with environmental legislation
across the different environmental sectors, including waste and pollution, air quality
and biodiversity management. Monitor and promote compliance with the National
Environmental Management Biodiversity Act (NEMBA) 2004 and other related
regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 11/70 : DIRECTOR: IMPACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022202
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Natural/ Physical Sciences/
Environmental Development Planning or relevant qualification on (NQF7) within the
related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at
Middle/Senior managerial level within the related field. Recommended candidate will
be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela)
before the appointment can be made. Enrolment for the course should be made on the
NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme. Valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of Government’s
environmental quality and protection related policies, priorities and strategies; impact
management matters, Government planning and budgeting processes Business and
project plan monitoring and reporting methodologies. Ability to develop and apply
policies. General management practices. Skills & Relationship Management;
Stakeholder engagement; Negotiation skills; Public Relations; Research; Strategic
Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management; Financial
Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery
Innovation (SDI); Problem Solving and Analysis; People Management and
Empowerment; Communication (Written and Verbal). Personal Attributes: Ability to
gather and analyse information; Good interpersonal relations skills. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Strong Management skills. Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
DUTIES : Manage the Directorate responsible for Impact Management and provide strategic
leadership to the Directorate and contribute to the relevant programmes and
responsibilities within the Chief Directorate: Strategic use of Environment. Ensure
effective management of teams and programmes within the directorate that monitor
and promote environmental legislation across the different environmental sectors.
Drafting and Implementation of environmental legislation. Support an effective EIM
system through various tools including Environmental Management Frameworks. Build
environmental capacity in Local Authorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below position, please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za.
Only online applications will be considered and for general enquiries please contact
Human Resource on at 076 521 4118.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, People with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply. Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application for
employment form issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in
line with the Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016, All fields in the
New Z83 form, must be completed and signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach the Curriculum Vitae
(CV) will result in disqualification. The New Z83 form, obtainable from the GPG
Professional Job Centre website, any Public Service Department or the DPSA website
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, all other documents are submitted by shortlisted
candidates). Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified copies of
qualifications not older than six (06) months, identity document and valid driver’s
license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job). It is our intention
to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
58
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representivity will receive preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan.
To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status
is required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to appoint. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 11/71 : RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON REF NO: REFS/022201
Directorate: Organisational Risk Management
3 Year Fixed Term Performance Based Contract
SALARY : Compensation will be in accordance with approved rates as determined by National
Treasury.
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : A post graduate qualification in Accounting/Risk Management or Auditing such as
CIA/CA (SA) or have completed a Master of Business Administration (MBA)
qualification or equivalent qualification in related field. A minimum of 10 years’
experience in risk management environment. Competencies: Knowledge – A good
understanding of the Risk Management and Corporate Governance, Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations, EWRM, COSO model and Public Sector
Risk Management Framework.
DUTIES : The candidate will chair the Department's Risk Management Operational Committee
and provide an oversight role regarding- Monitor implementation of risk management
within Department. Review of relevant risk policies/strategies and other working
procedures. Review risk management action plans to be instituted and ensure
compliance with such plans. Integration of risk management into planning, monitoring
and reporting processes. Review risk appetite and tolerance levels of Department.
Provide reports to the Accounting Officer on quarterly basis and other management
committees or other oversight committees. Implementation of risk maturity model.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Phumzile Ntsizi at 076 521 4118/072 668 0029
59
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWA-ZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications forwarded to Umzinyathi Health District Office, Private Bag X2052,
Dundee, 3000 Or Hand Delivery: 34 Wilson Street, Dundee, 3000. Application may
also be emailed to: Bongumusa.masondo@kznhealth.gov.za or
Mbalenhle.Ngwenya@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. M Ngwenya
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : NB: Please note that due to financial constraints, there will be no payment of S & T
and resettlement claims.
OTHER POST
POST 11/72 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY MATERNITY (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAE)
REF NO: UMZIN/03/2025 (X1 POST)
Sub District Greytown Hospital
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 per annum
Grade 2: 553 454 per annum
CENTRE : UMzinyathi Health District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/ Diploma in General Nursing with Midwifery Registration certificate with SANC
as a General Nurse with Midwifery A post basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery
and Neonatal Science Post Basic registration certificate accredited by SANC in
relevant specialty: Neonatal Nursing Science. Current registration receipt with SANC
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of public services acts,
regulations and policies Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and
related legal and ethical nursing practices standards. Perform a clinical nursing
practice in accordance with scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by
relevant health facility Demonstrate effective communication with client/patients
supervision and other clinicians, including report writing when required Able to plan
and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care
Knowledge and experience in implementation of Batho Pele principles, patients’ rights
charter and code of conduct.
DUTIES : Coordination of optical, holistic specialized nursing care provided within set standards
and professional /legal framework Manage effectively and efficiently the utilization and
supervision of all resources Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation
of policies, practices and procedures for example correct use partogram and maternity
guidelines Monitor and control the quality of patient care Maintain accreditation
standard by knowledge of policies and procedures, implementation of all programmes
ESMOE, HBB, BANC, PMTCT and BFHI Compile monthly and quarterly of report
Establish and maintain adherence to clinical governance pillars and processes Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care
ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Advocate and ensure
promotion of nursing Ethos and professionalism Participate in health promotion and
illness prevention initiative To assist in Employee Performance Management
Development System (EPMDS) of staff and implement Employee Assistance Program
(EAP)
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. K Edi Tel No: (034) 299 9100
60
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : N.B: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid disappointments.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. In
order to alleviate administration burden on HR Sections as well as considering the cost
for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be
submitted to HR on or before the day of the interview following communication from
the relevant HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from various
statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please ensure
that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post Reference Number
on your application. No fax applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure
that they fully complete and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete
and/or unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal
processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every recommended
candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All short listed candidates will
be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment. If no response is received from
Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90 days after the closing date of the
advertisement, applicants must assume that their application was not successful.
Please quote the correct references when applying and where possible the station /
centre where the post is. www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be
accepted. NB: Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date
must consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised posts if by
so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served. (People with
disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications)
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/73 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 / CEO REF NO: MPDOH/MAR/25/978
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 348 635 - R1 494 765 per annum
CENTRE : H A Grove Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner (2024). A minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner will
serve as recommendation and be an added advantage. Postgraduate management
qualification will be an added advantage. Computer literacy in Microsoft Package
(Word, Excel and Power Point) and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge in
Administration, Finance and Supply Chain Management. Strong communication,
customer management, leadership, interpersonal skills and strategic management.
Problem solving, good analytical and decision-making skills. The prospective
incumbent should have knowledge of good administration procedures relating to
specific working environment including norms and standards. Good Planning and
organizing skills. Sound clinical knowledge of and experience in the respective
discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies.
Experience as a health service manager or significant experience in management in a
health service environment. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
legislations such as National Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
public Service and related regulations and policies. Core-competencies: strategic
capabilities and leadership, programme and project management, financial
management, change management, people management and empowerment. Process
Competencies: Service delivery innovation, knowledge management, problem solving
and analysis, communication, client orientation and customer focus.
61
DUTIES : Provide services as the Clinical Manager in the hospital. Manage all resources,
including human resources. Co-ordinate and supervise the teaching of community
servers and junior doctors in the hospital. Organize CPD sessions in the unit. Manage
the outpatient clinic in the unit. Participate in quality improvement plans in the hospital.
Perform after-hour duties. Ensure that medical staff also comply with PMDS and are
evaluated quarterly. Overall control over the organising and inspection of health care
services, identification of the needs for health care, the formulation of health care
programs and the implementation thereof. Advise various committees at local and
national level on medical/ health issues Ensure co-ordination of various clinical and
support services. Evaluate needs for medical equipment, taking into account budget
and benefits to patients. In training institutions, significant involvement in organising of
examinations and teaching programmes. Community involvement and development.
Development of clinical protocols and guidelines for management. To plan, direct co-
ordinate and manage the efficient and delivery of clinical and administrative support
services through working with the key executive management team at the hospital
within the legal and regulatory framework, to represent the hospital authoritatively at
provincial and public forums. To provide strategic leadership to improve operational
efficiency within the health establishment to improve health outcomes. Strategic
Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the hospital to ensure that it is in line with the
10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and district plans. Financial Management:
Maximize revenue through collection of all income due to the hospital, ensure that
adequate policies, systems and procedure are in place to enable prudent management
of financial resources, planning of financial resource mobilization, monitoring and
evaluation and asset and risk management. Facility Management: Ensure business
support and systems to promote optimal management of the institution as well as
optimal service delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure
planning and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human Resource
Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource management
policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure effective and efficient
utilization of human resources, promote a safe and healthy working environment
through compliance with relevant legislation including occupation health and safety
committees. Ensure continuous development and training of personnel and implement
monitoring and evaluation of performance. Procurement and Management of
Equipment and Supplies: Implement procurement and provisioning system that is fair,
transparent, competitive and cost effective in terms of provincial delegated authority
and in line with the PFMA, ensure that goods are and services are procured in a cost
effective timely manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical
governance to ensure high standards of patient care establish community networks
and report to the Hospital Board. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and safety,
manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel
No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries:
Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 11/74 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) (PN-A7) REF NO: MPDOH/MAR/25/980
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R656 964 - R771 309 per annum
CENTRE : KwaMhlanga Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of eight (8) years appropriate / recognizable
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional nurse with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) in general nursing. At least three (3) years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience at management level.
Knowledge of the legislative and Policy framework as well as the current transformation
strategies in the Public Sector. Good communication, conflict management and
interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Delegate, Supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient patient care
through adequate quality nursing care. Initiate and participate in health promotion to
ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and comprehensive
information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain constructive working
relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Participate in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards, policies,
PMDS, procedures, Contingency and Strategic Plans. Monitor and ensure proper
utilization of human, financial and physical resources. Quality management including
infection control, information management and clinical audits. Participate in the
62
analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards
and procedures. Manage human resources. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of
financial and physical resources. Implement all relevant prescripts. Manage and
monitor proper utilization of human financial and material resources. Manage the
budget according to PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel
No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries:
Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 11/75 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: CARDIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/MAR/25/981
SALARY : R376 524 – R430 512 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Clinical Technology.
Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical Technologist (2025). Basic life support
(BLS). A minimum of two (2) years’ Cardiac Clinical Technologist experience will be an
added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none experience after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of employees
who performed Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees:
one (1) year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community
Service as required in SA. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of both paediatric and adult diagnostic and interventional procedures.
Interest in adult and paediatric echocardiography is essential and previous experience
an advantage. Good communication skills both written and verbal.
DUTIES : The candidate must have background in performing echocardiography and will receive
instruction as required for adult and paediatric echocardiography. This will be the
primary focus of the post. Previous experience in adult and paediatric
echocardiography is an advantage. Provide optimal patient care. Participate in all
departmental activities as required for cardiac patients. Monitor and maintain
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel
No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries:
Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
The Office of the Premier is looking for dynamic, innovative, experienced and suitable candidates to fill the
following posts, listed in the various Units below. The Office of the Premier is an equal opportunity employer. It
is our intention to promote representativity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these
positions and that the candidature of persons, whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to: The (A)
Deputy Director - Internal HRM & D: Ms SS Monareng, Private Bag X11291,
Mbombela, 1200. Physical Address: Office of the Premier, Makhonjwa Building, First
floor, Government Boulevard, Riverside Park. Alternatively, e-mail to:
otprecruitment@mpg.gov.za If no correspondence is received within two months of the
closing date, applicants must accept that their applications have been unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
NOTE : The minimum entry requirement for Senior Management Services (SMS) post is a Pre-
entry Certificate that is obtainable through a course named Certificate for entry into
SMS – and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. (SMS Pre-
entry Certificate submitted prior appointment) The recommended candidate for this
post shall be subjected to a competency assessment. All Appointments are subject to
security clearance, security vetting, employment reference checks, qualification
verification and signing of performance agreements. Applications should be submitted
on the new Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or Magistrate’s
Office and should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications.
63
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/76 : DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL RISK AND ETHICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: D-
OREM/OTP/01
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director-General.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor's Degree/Advanced National Diploma or equivalent
qualification in risk management, or a related field (NQF level 7). Minimum of five (5)
years of experience at Middle/Senior Management level in compliance, risk
management, business continuity management system and related fields. Thorough
knowledge of prescripts applicable in the Public Service, including Corporate
Governance and Compliance Management, Business Continuity Management ISO
22301. The candidate should have integrity, self-confidence, a sense of responsibility
and ability to work under pressure. Essential skills will include the following: Risk
management Ethics management Business Continuity Management Interpersonal
relations Strategic capability and leadership Financial management Change
management Report writing and presentation Knowledge management People
management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the development of departmental anti-corruption, risk, business
continuity management systems, including organisational resilience and sustainability
planning and support other departments in the Province, ethics management policies,
strategies and guidelines Identify risk and develop response strategies Develop and
manage business continuity management plan Develop and implement anti-corruption
plan Promote high standards of professionalism and public service ethics Manage
internal control and compliance services Develop and manage the implementation of
compliance management policy framework Manage the Directorate’s human, financial,
physical resources, as well as information.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EVALUATION REF NO: DD-EVA/OTP/02
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Monitoring and Evaluation. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma or equivalent
qualification in Monitoring and Evaluation, Social Science, Economics, Development
Studies, Auditing (NQF level 7). A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior
Management level. Experience in Strategic Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. Good
communications with excellent organisational and writing skills, and be able to interact
at high profile levels. Essential skills will include the following: Planning and Organizing
Strategic capability and leadership Financial management Change management
Knowledge management People management and empowerment Programme and
project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation and customer
focus Problem solving and analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Develop the Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the Frontline Service
Delivery Monitoring. Co-ordinate provincial departments and entities for the
implementation of the Integrated Frontline Service Delivery Monitoring and Support
(FSDM) in the province Develop and customize performance indicators for the
Frontline Service Delivery Monitoring. Compile quarterly reports on the performance
against Frontline Service Delivery Monitoring. Perform Quarterly Performance analysis
against Annual Performance Plans of provincial department’s and entities. Compile
quarterly reports on District Municipalities performance. Managing human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng: Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
64
POST 11/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DD-IKM /OTP/03
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Information and Knowledge Management. The shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in Social Science,
Economics, Development Studies, Policy Development, Population and Demography
(NQF level 7), or equivalent qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at
a Junior Management level, preferably in the field of Knowledge
Management/Research Management/Monitoring and Evaluation. Relevant experience
in research management, practical knowledge of government policies on research
management legislatives and regulatory frameworks. Good interpersonal and
communications skills. Ability to work independently and as part of a team and a valid
driver’s license would be an added advantage. Essential skills will include the following:
Research Management Comprehensive report writing Strategic capability and
leadership Financial management Change management Knowledge management
People management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of the Knowledge Management (KM) function in the
province Facilitate the coordination of provincial KM Forum Monitor the departmental
and municipal implementation of KM Forum resolutions Provide strategic support on
the Provincial KM function Ensure implementation of the KM Strategy and
implementation Plan in the Province Identify and appoint KM structures in the Province
Conduct Knowledge Management awareness sessions Develop the Provincial KM
policy Render supervisory services.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH SERVICES REF NO: DD-RS/OTP/04
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Research Services and SIMS. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in Social Science,
Economics, Development Studies, Policy Development, Population and Demography
(NQF 7), or equivalent qualification. A Postgraduate Degree/Diploma (NQF level 8) will
be an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior
Management level, preferably in the field of Research Management. Practical
knowledge of government policies on research management legislative and regulatory
frameworks. Good interpersonal and communications skills. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team and a valid driver’s license is a requirement.
Essential skills will include the following: Research Management Comprehensive
report writing Strategic capability and leadership Financial management Change
management Knowledge management People management and empowerment
Programme and project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation
and customer focus Problem solving and analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment of the research partnerships with institutions of higher
learning/research institutions Facilitate research collaboration with institutions of
higher learning/research institutions Foster partnership and promote research
collaborations between institutions of higher learning/research institutions and
provincial departments Develop, improve, accelerate and strengthen research
capacity in the province Coordinate Mpumalanga Research Institute activities Manage
the implementation of the Provincial Research Agenda Facilitate the coordination of
provincial Research Forum Manage the compilation of research agenda reports
Render supervisory services.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROTOCOL SERVICES REF NO: DD-PS/OTP/05
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Integrated Security Management.
65
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in International
Relations / Protocol / Public Management (NQF 7) or equivalent qualification. A
minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior Management level with experience
in an environment rendering protocol matters and a valid driver’s license. Essential
skills will include the following: Protocol services Strategic capability and leadership
Financial management Change management Report writing and presentation
Knowledge management People management and empowerment Programme and
project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation and customer
focus Problem solving and analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Developing and implementing the Provincial protocol policy Rendering protocol
support to the Premier and the Executive Rendering ceremonial services and state
visits matters Co-ordinating Provincial protocol services Compile and present reports
on protocol matters Managing human, financial and physical resources, as well as
information.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: DD-IR/OTP/06
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: International Relations.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in International
Relations, Public Management (NQF level 7) or equivalent qualification. A minimum of
three (3) years of experience in a Junior Management level. Experience in international
relations coordination, strategic management, monitoring, and evaluation. Must have
a good understanding of the White Paper on South African Foreign Policy, National
Development Plan, Mpumalanga Vision 2030 and National Priorities. Essential skills
will include the following: International relations Strategic capability and leadership
Financial management Change management Report writing and presentation
Knowledge management People management and empowerment Programme and
project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation and customer
focus Problem solving and analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Coordinating the implementation of donor funding programmes Manage and oversee
stakeholder engagement Conducting research on potential international partners
Monitoring twinning agreements Monitor donor funding assistance programmes
implemented by sector departments and municipalities Co-ordination of
outbound/inbound missions Co-ordinate existing and new regional partnership with
Southern Africa, East Africa, Central Africa, West Africa and North Africa Managing
the Division’s resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOCIAL PROTECTION COMMUNICATION AND HUMAN
DEVELOPMENT CLUSTER REF NO: DD-SC/OTP/07
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Social Protection Communication and Human Development Cluster. The
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Economics, Development Studies,
Social Science, Monitoring and Evaluation, Public Policy. A minimum of three (3) years
managerial experience at a Junior Management level. Experience in the field of
Monitoring and Evaluation would be an added advantage. Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act and Public Service Act, as well as other prescripts applicable
in the Public Service. Essential skills will include the following: Comprehensive report
writing Strategic capability and leadership Financial management Change
management Knowledge management People management and empowerment
Programme and project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation
and customer focus Problem solving and Communications.
DUTIES : Manage the development of the Integrated Provincial Programme of Action for the
Social and Transformation Cluster aligned to SONA, SOPA, MTDP and Mpumalanga
Vision 2030 Manage the monitoring and evaluation of the provincial department’s
performance within the social and transformation cluster Manage the assessment of
provincial performance against provincial priorities, national policies, Makgotla
priorities and other Provincial Strategic Fora Provide strategic direction / support to
66
cluster departments on policy matters through analysis and review of departmental
plans of submissions prior Provide policy advice to the social and transformation
cluster on a regular basis. Ensure improvement of performance of departments through
establishing monitoring, reporting and evaluations systems for cluster and
transformation departments. Manage Risk Management and coordination of PRIME
activities. Manage the Social Transformation Cluster Management directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDIA, DEPARTMENTAL LIAISON AND INFORMATION
SERVICES (WEBSITE) REF NO: DD-MDL/OTP/08
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Media, Departmental and Information Services. The shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma or qualification in
Journalism (NQF level 7) or equivalent qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’
experience at a Junior Management level. Experience in the field of media liaison and
information services, communications, journalism and or in public relations.
Competency in media operations, local government communications and ability to
communicate with various audiences at different levels. Excellent coordinating,
organisational and writing skills and a valid driver’s license. Essential skills will include
the following: Strategic capability and leadership Financial management Change
management Knowledge management People management and empowerment
Programme and project management Service delivery innovations Client orientation
and customer focus. Problem solving and analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and coordination of communication and relationship with
the media Enhance the public image of the Premier and the Provincial Government,
through media platforms Develop content for social media platforms to profile the work
of the Premier and the Provincial Government Draft official media statements, articles,
and facilitate interviews Monitor the media, industry publications and current affairs
related to the Premier and the Provincial Government, and coordinate media
responses for enquiries Manage the compilation of media monitoring reports Lead and
direct stakeholders liaison by coordinating the Provincial Government Communicators’
Forum, and the Provincial Media Monitoring Team.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/84 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES REF NO:
DD-THRS/OTP/09
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Transversal Human Resource Services. The shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree /Advanced National Diploma in Human Resource
Management or Public Management and Administration (NQF level 7) or equivalent
and relevant qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior
Management level. Experience in the field of human resource management, human
resource development and policy development. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act and Public Service Act, as well as other prescripts applicable in the
Public Service. Essential skills will include the following: Policy development and
management HR prescripts analysis Comprehensive report writing Strategic capability
and leadership Financial management Change management Knowledge management
People management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of HRM Policies and Frameworks after receipt of
requests Monitor compliance to HRM prescripts, with specific reference to effective
Performance Management System for officials on SL 2-12, SMS members and HOD’s
within the provincial departments Monitor compliance by departments with reference
to Employment Equity Act implementation and HR Planning Ensure management of
risk within the Unit Manage HR and promote efficient Unit resource utilization.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
67
POST 11/85 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR PRACTICES, ORGANISATIONAL STRATEGY AND
PLANNING REF NO: DD-HRP/OTP/10
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Internal HR Management and Development.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in Human Resource
Management, Public Management and Administration (NQF level 7) or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior Management level.
Experience in the fields of human resource management, labour relations, policy
development. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and Public Service
Act, as well as any other prescripts applicable in the Public Service. Essential skills will
include the following: HR management HR prescripts analysis Comprehensive report
writing Financial management Change management Knowledge management People
management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Manage the development of the recruitment, selection and retention policies/strategies
and the implementation thereof Manage the implementation of the transfer processes
Manage the implementation of the compensation of employees and conditions of
service in terms of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act Manage the development
and implementation of the organizational strategy, HR Plan and the Employment
Equity Plan Manage the Sub-Unit’s planning and reporting, based on the approved
plans and strategies Provide informed advice on human resource matters Manage the
Office’s personnel records and any related information Manage and administer the
human resource PERSAL system Manage the Sub-Unit’s human, financial, physical
resources, as well as information.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/86 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT AND AUXILIARY SERVICES
REF NO: DD-RMA/OTP/11
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Internal HRM and Development.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree /Advanced National Diploma in Archives and
Records Management or Public Management (NQF level 7), or equivalent qualification.
A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior Management level. Relevant
experience in archive and records management fields. Practical knowledge of
government policies on archives and records management. Good interpersonal and
communications skills and ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Essential skills will include the following: Archives and records management Planning
and organizing Financial management Change management Knowledge management
People management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Developing and implementation of records management policies and strategies
Developing and monitoring of the Office’s implementation of the filing plan Managing
and safeguarding the Office’s documents and files Managing auxiliary services
Managing and safeguarding of electronic and audio-visual records Co-ordinating the
process of archiving and disposing of documents and Managing the Division’s
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/87 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL RISK AND ETHICS MANAGEMENT
(INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT) REF NO: DD-
OREM/OTP/12
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement with the
Director: Organisational Risk and Ethics Management.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor's Degree/Advanced National Diploma or equivalent
qualification in risk management, or a related field (NQF Level 7). Minimum of three
(3) years of experience at a Junior Management level in compliance, risk management,
68
internal audit and related fields. Thorough knowledge of prescripts applicable in the
Public Service, including Corporate Governance and Compliance Management. Full
understanding of audit processes in the Public Service. Demonstrate analytical
abilities, leadership skills, communication skills both verbal and writing and people
management skills. Should have integrity, self-confidence, a sense of responsibility
and ability to work under pressure. Essential skills will include the following:
Interpersonal relations Strategic capability and leadership Financial management
Change management Report writing and presentation Knowledge management
People management and empowerment Programme and project management Service
delivery innovations Client orientation and customer focus Problem solving and
analysis Communications.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of compliance management policy
framework Manage and update the Departmental compliance risk universe on an on-
going basis Develop compliance risk management plan Provide guidance, advice,
and/or training and educational programs, to improve department's understanding of
related laws and regulatory requirements Promote and influence compliance
management culture in the department Monitor the implementation of applicable
legislation and maintenance of the compliance universe Coordinate internal and
external audit engagements Coordinate oversight reports and tracking of
recommendations Compile compliance reports to management or any relevant
stakeholder.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/88 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE REF NO: AD-EXP/OTP/13
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Commerce (NQF level 6), a
B-Com Degree in Accounting is an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years
relevant experience in Expenditure or Financial Management field. Practical
knowledge of government expenditure procedures, BAS, LOGIS, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Good interpersonal and communications skills. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Expenditure administration and management will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage and Administer the processing of payments Safeguarding of payment
vouchers and oversee (manage) adherence to internal controls processes and
procedures Liaise with suppliers of goods and services and manage staff performance
Establish and maintain the expenditure risk factors.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/89 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: AD-FI/OTP/14
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma or equivalent qualification in
Internal Audit, Labour Relations, Accounting, Risk Management and Law or B Com
Law (NQF level 6) or equivalent and relevant qualification, with experience in an
investigation environment and a valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Conducting investigations and preparing reports on various fraud and corruption cases
Managing corruption cases and reviewing forensic audit reports Keeping records of all
Companies that have been successfully prosecuted for fraud and corruption and
communicate such information to the Provincial Treasury Liaising with various
stakeholders, such as SIU, SAPS, AFU and participants at the Multi-Agency Working
Group, regarding investigative operations relating to all reported cases Conducting
follow-ups with other Directorates on complaints forwarded to ensure the closure of
those complaints so that full feedback is provided to complainants within reasonable
time Provide technical support to the Provincial Department and Local Municipalities
as and when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/90 : BAS SYSTEM CONTROLLER: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: AD-
BSC/OTP/15
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
69
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Public Administration,
Accounting, (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Three (3) years’ experience
within the BAS environment. Sound knowledge of the Department processes,
procedures and financial reporting requirements. Knowledge in Accounting,
communication skills, people management skills and presentation skills, extensive
knowledge of the system. A System Controller’s Certificate will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage Security Profiles Maintain departmental parameters Investigate all issues
raised and experienced within the Department and resolve them Facilitate all BAS
system releases Establish and maintain communication between BAS and relevant
source systems Manage and monitor the functions of BAS Users Ensure that important
management reports are made available to CFO and other managers Draw reports on
the system on regular basis to enable him/her to monitor the activities of the
Departments, e.g. audit trails Assist auditors with relevant reports and auditors
download that they need for auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/91 : PERSAL SYSTEM CONTROLLER: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: AD-
PSC/OTP/16
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Human Resource Management
or Public Management (NQF Level 6) or equivalent qualification. Computer literacy.
The candidate must have passed the PERSAL Controllers Course and extensive
knowledge of the functionality and capabilities of the PERSAL System.
DUTIES : Ensure that all users and supervisors are orientated, trained and maintain a high
standard of training of personnel Register supervisors and users under her / his control
and allocate PERSAL functions to them according to their allocated tasks Ensure that
prerequisites and procedures of PERSAL are well executed Ensure the compilation
and maintenance of In-house user manuals Manage the authorizations of suspense
file transactions and the verification thereof with the source document Advise PERSAL
users on the operation of the system Execute control and audit measures by making
use of PERSAL’s exception reports.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/92 : LOGIS SYSTEM CONTROLLER: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT/ REF NO: AD-
LSC/OTP/17
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Accounting, B-Com or Public
Management/ Administration (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Certificate in
Logis System Controller. Three (3) years’ experience within the experience in Financial
Management. Good Knowledge and skills in BAS, LOGIS, Treasury Regulations,
PFMA, credit and debt management, numeracy, financial administration, Good
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Risk Management and PFMA and a valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement Logistical Information System Sites Monitor and evaluate the
implementation of LOGIS and maintenance programmes Facilitate the implementation
of segregation of duties and acceptance of functional agreement for all LOGIS Users
Evaluate performance of institutional sites and give report to senior management
Assist with supplier banking details Manage processing of orders Arrange training for
Logis Users Assist Assets Management with Logis related matters monitor other
personnel services related to processing of orders.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/93 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS AND DISPOSAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REF NO: AD-LDMS /OTP/18
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Commerce, or B-Com in
Accounting or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Three
(3) years’ experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge of the Public Finance
70
Management Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, as well as other
prescripts applicable in the Public Service and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement plans and strategies on logistics and disposal management in
the Office Managing the capturing and approval of requisitions for the office Managing
the ordering processes Managing the inventory and consumable Render supervisory
services.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/94 : CHIEF WORKSTUDY OFFICER: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: CWO-ODJE /OTP/19
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Work Study/Management
Services/Organizational Design, or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6), with three
(3) years of relevant experience in Organisational Design and Job Evaluation. A
Certificate in Job Evaluation. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conducting Work Study Investigations and Compiling Reports Conducting Job
Evaluations Facilitating the Process of developing Job Description. Advising
Departments on organograms and efficiency related matters Managing the Division’s
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/95 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDIA DEPARTMENTAL LIAISON AND INFORMATION
SERVICES REF NO: AS-MDL/OTP/20
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Communications/ Journalism or equivalent qualification. Ability to work independently
without supervision and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implementing media engagement plans Identify relevant media platforms to profile the
Premier and the Provincial Government Distribute media alerts, statements and
releases to the media database Conceptualise media content such as media
advisories and media statements for approval by the supervisor Facilitate Provincial
Government Communicators’ Forum Coordinate monthly and quarterly reports
Manage communication activities around the events and campaigns on the
departmental calendar Facilitate media accreditation, coordinate venues for media
registration and interviews.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/96 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (SDF): HUMAN RESOURCE UTILISATION AND
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: AD-SDF/OTP/21
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resources or Public Management/Administration or equivalent qualification, with a
minimum of three (3) years relevant experience in Human Resource Development and
Performance Management fields. Practical knowledge of government policies on
human resource development and performance management. Good interpersonal and
communications skills, Facilitation and Presentation skills. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Skills Development Facilitator, Assessor and
Moderator certificates will be an added advantage. A valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the development, implementation and monitoring of the
Workplace Skills Plan Facilitate the implementation of Leanership, Recognition of Prior
Learning (RPL), Community education and training (CET) and Internship Programmes
in the Office of the Premier Management and support of the Premier’s Discretionary
Bursary Fund Compile Quarterly and Annual reports. Liaison with Service Providers
and PSETA.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
71
POST 11/97 : PERSAL SYSTEM CONTROLLER: HR PRACTICES, ORGANISATIONAL
STRATEGY AND PLANNING REF NO: AD-PSC/OTP/22
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Human Resource Management
or Public Management (NQF Level 6) or equivalent qualification. Computer literacy.
Must have passed the PERSAL Controllers Course and extensive knowledge of the
functionality and capabilities of the PERSAL System.
DUTIES : Ensure that all users and supervisors are orientated, trained and maintain a high
standard of training of personnel Register supervisors and users under her / his control
and allocate PERSAL functions to them according to their allocated tasks Ensure that
prerequisites and procedures of PERSAL are well executed Ensure the compilation
and maintenance of In-house user manuals Manage the authorizations of suspense
file transactions and the verification thereof with the source document Advise PERSAL
users on the operation of the system Execute control and audit measures by making
use of PERSAL’s exception reports.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/98 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN REF NO: AD-
OSW/OTP/23
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Social Science, Social Work,
Psychology, Humanities (NQF level 6) or relevant qualification. Three (3) years’
experience supporting target groups. Practical knowledge on government policies and
programmes supporting target groups, in particular women, good interpersonal and
communications skills and ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Assist in Formulating policy frameworks and guidelines on women matters and provide
an informed advice thereon. Assist in coordinating the integration of gender equality
across departmental programmes and projects Assist in monitoring and reporting on
gender representativity across the departments Co-ordinate the Provincial programme
of action of women. Compile reports and provide an informed advice on gender related
issues.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECONOMY, INVESTMENT AND EMPLOYMENT
CLUSTER REF NO: AD-EIEC/OTP/24
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Economics or Development
Economics/Business Management (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Three (3)
years’ experience. Policy analysis and research capabilities. Experience in effective
communication (written and verbal). Good understanding of how the machinery of
government works, including linkages between National, Provincial and Local spheres
of government. Familiarity with relevant provincial policies and priorities. Graphic
presentation of information. Advanced computer skills. Willingness to work beyond
working hours. Ability to work under tight schedule. Essential Skills: Experience in
Macro coordination, Policy analysis, Strategy planning and Policy planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Coordination skills Analytical skills, Project management skills
Financial and People management and Graphic representation of information
Advanced computer skills Familiarity with relevant Provincial policies and priorities.
DUTIES : Support management of the Economy, Investment and Employment Cluster Unit
Support analysis of provincial performance and other Provincial Strategic Fora Liaise
with cluster departments and collate reporting information Provide administrative
support in the Economy, Investment and Employment Cluster Technical Committee
meetings Participate in Macro Policy projects performance monitoring teams.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SOCIAL PROTECTION COMMUNICATION AND HUMAN
DEVELOPMENT CLUSTER REF NO: AD-SC/OTP/25
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
72
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Social Science,
Economics, Development Studies, Public Policy, Monitoring and Evaluation (NQF level
6) or equivalent qualification. Three (3) years’ experience in policy analysis and
research. Competency and experience in effective communication (written and verbal).
Essential Skills: Experience in Macro coordination, Policy analysis, Strategy planning
and Policy planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Coordination skills Analytical skills,
Project management skills Financial and People management and Graphic
representation of information Advanced computer skills Familiarity with relevant
Provincial policies and priorities.
DUTIES : Develop an Integrated Provincial Programme of Action for the Social and
Transformation and Cluster aligned to SONA, SOPA, MTDP and Mpumalanga Vision
2030 Monitor and evaluate provincial department’s performance within the Social and
Transformation Cluster Assessment of provincial performance against provincial
priorities, national policies, Makgotla priorities. Provide policy advice to the Social and
Transformation Cluster on a regular basis Enhance performance of departments
through establishing monitoring, reporting and evaluations systems for cluster and
transformation departments Manage Risk Management and coordination of PRIME
activities Manage the Social Transformation Cluster Management Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EVALUATION REF NO: AD-EVA/OTP/26
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor Degree/National Diploma in Monitoring and Evaluation/ Social
Science/ Economy/Development Studies/ Auditing (NQF level 6) or equivalent
qualification. Three (3) years’ experience in Monitoring and Evaluation or Strategic
Planning will be an added advantage. Good communication skills with excellent
organizational and writing skills, as well as the ability to interact at high profile levels.
DUTIES : Develop Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation Framework Develop Provincial
Evaluation Plan and manage the implementation of the evaluations studies Monitor
and report performance of Provincial department’s, entities against the predetermined
objectives Provide support to the Evaluation Directorate in executing its mandate
Support the Directorate in performance monitoring of provincial departments Support
the Directorate on Integrated Frontline Service Delivery Monitoring and Support
(FSDM) Operate IT system designed for performance monitoring and data
management Support the Directorate in developing of monitoring and evaluation
frameworks, policies and tools Support the implementation and coordination of plans
and projects of the Directorate Perform any other function assigned to the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: IHRM &D: Ms. SS Monareng Tel No:
(013) 766 2004
POST 11/102 : ICT SPECIALIST: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (PGITO) REF NO: AD-ICT/OTP/27
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Information Technology, or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 6), with extensive experience in Information
Technology. Problem solving skills, ability to work independently or in a team and
advanced computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Providing technical support for Information Technology related devices in the Office of
the Premier and other departments Promoting ICT awareness and usage thereof in
the Office of the Premier and other departments Monitoring IT service level agreements
that the OTP and other departments enter into with service providers Developing IT
technical standards on procedural and related matters to OTP and departments.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE UTILISATION AND CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT (PMDS) REF NO: AD-PMDS/OTP/28
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor Degree/National Diploma in Human Resource Management/
Public Management (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification, with a minimum of three
(3) years relevant experience in human resource management. Relevant experience
in human resource management and development fields. Practical knowledge of
73
government policies on human resource management and development. Good
interpersonal and communications skills. Ability to work independently and as part of
a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of Performance Management and Development Policy
for officials on Salary levels 2-12 and SMS Members Coordinate the implementation
of performance management and development of policy for SMS members Administer
benefits on PERSAL Training of officials on Salary levels 2-12 and SMS Members
regarding PMDS Policy requirements Liaise with officials and other stakeholders
regarding PMDS issues Capture all PMDS documents on PERSAL System Coordinate
all sittings on PMDS for all officials within the Office of the Premier Attend to all queries
relating to PMDS matters.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL RISK AND ETHICS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: AD-OREM/OTP/29
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Internal Audit/ Risk
Management/ Accounting (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Three years’
experience in Risk Management/Auditing/Financial Management. Knowledge of Public
Sector Risk Management Framework, Company of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO)
Framework, King IV on Risk Management and Chapter 2 of Public Service
Regulations, 2016, as amended. Ethics in the Public Service Course/Certificate.
DUTIES : Drive the implementation of ethics and risk management policies and strategy of the
Office of the Premier Conduct risk assessment and review Regular updating of the risk
registers Monitor progress in mitigation and management of risks Monitor and evaluate
the implementation of the Ethics & Risk Management Plan, including the Fraud
Prevention Plan Render secretarial role to the Ethics & Risks Management Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF
NO: AD-IMG/OTP/30
SALARY : R444 036 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Public Management/
Communication/Law/ Ethics or Social Sciences (NQF Level 6) or in the relevant field.
At least 3-5 years of experience in a related field (e.g. ethics, compliance, community
development). Strong knowledge of ethics and integrity principles, including relevant
laws and regulations. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to make
presentations. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to maintain
confidentiality and handle sensitive information.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and Implement the Provincial/National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the
Implementation Plans Co-ordinate and monitor the implementation of the Provincial
ethics strategy, Policies and Programmes Provide oversight role and support to the
Provincial Departments and Municipalities on integrity management and promotion of
good governance, including Ethics management Organize and facilitate awareness
programmes on ethics and integrity awareness meant to promote good governance
Coordinate and provide Secretariat function to the Provincial Anti-Corruption Co-
ordination Committee Collaborate with Departments and Municipalities to ensure that
ethics and integrity are integrated into all aspects of the organization Provide regular
general support to the manager and compile monthly and quarterly reports on ethics
and integrity matters.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/106 : WORK STUDY OFFICER: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB EVALUATION
REF: WSO/OTP/31
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree /National Diploma in Work Study/Management
Services/Organizational Design or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6). Knowledge
of Job Evaluation is an added advantage. A valid driver’s license will be an added
advantage.
74
DUTIES : Developing of Organograms and compiling of reports on the organization and post
establishment of the departments Evaluating posts in the provincial departments
Facilitating the process of compiling Job Descriptions in the departments Rendering
advice to management on organogram and efficiency-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/107 : FORENSIC INVESTIGATOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: FI/OTP/32
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in Forensic
Investigations, Law, Risk Management or Commerce (NQF level 6) or equivalent
qualification. Knowledge in the investigation environment and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conducting investigations and preparing reports on various fraud and corruption cases
Management of fraud and corruption cases Manage cases database and tracking
systems reviewing forensic audit reports Keeping records of all companies that have
been successfully prosecuted for fraud and corruption and communicate such
information to the Provincial Treasury Liaising with various stakeholders such as SIU,
SAPS, AFU regarding investigative operations relating to all reported cases
Conducting follow-ups with other Directorates on complaints forwarded to ensure the
closure of those complaints so that full feedback is provided to complainants within a
reasonable time Compiling monthly and quarterly reports on all the work within their
jurisdiction Providing expert support to the provincial departments and local
municipalities as and when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. VT Nkosi Tel No: (013)
766 2343
POST 11/108 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRANSPORT AND ASSESTS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: AO-TAM/OTP/33
SALARY : R308 154 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s of Commerce Degree/National Diploma in Accounting
/Finance or Supply Chain Management (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification. Ability
to work with figures. Practical knowledge of government logistics and disposal
management processes. Sound interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy is recommended.
DUTIES : Receive assets deliveries. Barcode assets received and issue assets received to the
relevant Unit Administer disposal management Conduct Assets verifications Capturing
and Updating assets information on the LOGIS system capturing and updating assets
on assets register.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/109 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING REF
NO: AO-SMP/OTP/34
SALARY : R308 154 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelors Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Administration/Public
Management/Organisational Performance Planning and Monitoring. 2-3 years working
experience in strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation environment.
Administration, organisational, administrative and time management skills. Computer
literacy in (Ms Word Excel and Power Point). Knowledge and Experience of the
strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation policies, prescripts and practices. Good
interpersonal, as well as written and verbal communication skills. A team player with
basic management skills, sound interpersonal relations and numerical skills. Problem
solving skills. Sound organising and planning skills. Customer orientation and
leadership abilities. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist in Coordination of the implementation of strategic planning, monitoring and
evaluation policies Participate in the development of strategic planning, monitoring and
evaluation templates Distribute templates as required Assist in the compilation of the
Departmental plans, annual, quarterly and monthly reports Assist in coordination of
strategic performance review reports and sessions Maintain accurate records and filing
systems Play an administrative role for the Unit (Arrange bookings for meetings and
take minutes; Send, receive, record and distribution of mail) Process financial and
administrative related documents Attend to daily enquiries and make sure that
necessary follow-ups are made.
75
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/110 : MESSENGER: EXECUTIVE COUNCIL SECRETARIAT REF NO: M-EXCO/OTP/35
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of NQF Level 4 (Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent). Driver’s license (Code
8-EC). A minimum of five years driving experience.
DUTIES : Transportation of work teams Deliver and collect documents from different
departments and entities Transportation of material and/or equipment Detect and
repair minor mechanical problems on the vehicles Check and attend to level and/or
condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water Take steps to have vehicles repaired by the
relevant authorities. Inspect vehicles/equipment/material and report defects. Complete
vehicle logbook and trip authorization.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/111 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TRANSVERSAL HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES REF
NO: AC-THRS/OTP/36
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate, Certificate in Office Administration, Experience in the field of
Office Administration will be an added advantage, Sound interpersonal and
communication skills and computer literacy is highly recommended.
DUTIES : Maintain accurate records and manage the Unit’s filing system Play an administrative
role for the Unit (Arrange bookings for meetings and take minutes; Send, receive,
record and distribution of mail) Process financial and administrative related documents
Attend to daily enquiries and make sure that necessary follow-ups are made Record
and compile minutes during meetings Handle logistical services for the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/112 : REGISTRY CLERK: RECORDS MANAGEMENT AND AUXILIARY SERVICES REF
NO: RC-RMAS/OTP/37
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade12). Competency in handling registry matters. Extensive
experience and knowledge of Directives and procedures in registry. Knowledge of the
National Archives Act, MISS, registration and messenger services. Appropriate
experience in electronic records management is essential. Knowledge and
understanding of records classification system and Ability to work under pressure.
Competencies: Ability to read and analyse official documents. Ability to work in a team
and independently. Good interpersonal relations. Good communications skills.
Computer literacy. Must be pro-active and flexible.
DUTIES : Process incoming and outgoing documents Manage correspondences Ensure
safekeeping and security of all documents Process documents for archiving Comply
with and promote Batho Pele Principles and Service Standards Perform ad hoc duties
as directed by the Senior Manager and Deliver documents to relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/113 : SECRETARY: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING REF NO: S-
SMP/OTP/38
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Certificate in Office Administration and experience in the field of
Office Administration will be an added advantage. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy is highly recommended.
DUTIES : Manage the Sectional Head’s diary Handle the Sectional Head’s correspondence Type
documents for the Sectional Head Co-ordinate meetings for the Unit Record and
compile minutes during meetings Handle logistical services for the Unit Manage the
Unit’s filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
76
POST 11/114 : SECRETARY: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: S-LR/OTP/39
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Certificate in Office Administration and experience in the field of
Office Administration will be an added advantage. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy is highly recommended.
DUTIES : Manage the Sectional Head’s diary Handle the Sectional Head’s correspondence Type
documents for the Sectional Head Co-ordinate meetings for the Unit Record and
compile minutes during meetings Handle logistical services for the Unit Manage the
Unit’s filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
POST 11/115 : SECRETARY: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: S-IR/OTP/40
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Certificate in Office Administration and experience in the field of
Office Administration will be an added advantage. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy is highly recommended.
DUTIES : Manage the Sectional Head’s diary Handle the Sectional Head’s correspondence Type
documents for the Sectional Head Co-ordinate meetings for the Unit Record and
compile minutes during meetings Handle logistical services for the Unit Manage the
Unit’s filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Human Resource Practitioner: Ms. NA Mathebula Tel No:
(013) 766 2426
77
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at a date,
time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your
application on or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Kindly
note that technical support is only available from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00.
Should you experience any difficulties with your online application you may contact the
helpline at 0861 370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will
be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
Competency Assessment tools. The nominated candidate will be required to complete
the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme before they may be appointed into this
post. The purpose of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public
service specific training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the
SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120
notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/ Furthermore,
thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications for our positions, and
as such will not be able to respond personally to all applications. Therefore, should you
not hear from us within 10 weeks from close of advert please consider your application
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/116 : DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PLANNING AND STRATEGY REF NO: AGR 30/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : B degree (NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA) in agricultural economics, economics,
agriculture, planning or related subject fields; A minimum of 5 years middle or senior
management experience; A valid code B drivers’ license. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Expert knowledge of the Western Cape Agricultural Sector within the
context of the South African, African and Global Sector; Proven ability to analyse and
advise on strategic and policy matters (provincial / national / international /
contemporary issues in agricultural and economic context; Understanding the whole
value chain of the Agricultural Sector and ability to analyse and comment on trends
and disruptions in the Sector; Expert knowledge of government planning, evaluation
and reporting frameworks and processes; Ability to provide perspectives on issues of
the day; Proven knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line functions;
Proven knowledge and understanding of information systems that aid in the
management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Proven
knowledge and understanding of programme and project management; Proven
knowledge and understanding of procurement and tendering processes; Proven
knowledge and understanding of policy development, and strategy management,
monitoring and review processes; Proven knowledge and understanding of modern
systems of governance and administration; Proven knowledge and understanding of
public service procedures, processes and systems; Proven knowledge and
understanding of the global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs
impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Proven knowledge and
understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the
South African public sector; Proven knowledge and understanding of public finance,
human resources and discourse management processes; Proven knowledge and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, National and Provincial
Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements; Proven knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the Province
and the activities of sister departments; Proven knowledge and understanding of the
policies of the government of the day; Basic knowledge and understanding of Labour
78
Relations legislation and regulations; Proven knowledge and understanding of
performance management in general; Technical report writing; Networking.
DUTIES : Line Management; Provide expert counsel on agricultural economic and related
matters for high-level decision making; Manage the transversal strategic planning,
evaluation monitoring and reporting processes for the Department; Promote
departmental communication; Manage the departmental involvement in the integrated
development planning process; Strategic Management; Financial Management;
People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Mogale Sebopetsa Tel No: (021) 808 5005 /
Mogale.Sebopetsa@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/117 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ANIMAL AND PLANT PRODUCTION (ELSENBURG) REF
NO: AGR 16/2025
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Honours Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 5-
years relevant middle management experience (managerial experience in an
academic environment). Recommendation: MSc Agriculture or equivalent qualification;
A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy development about training;
Strategic management; Human resource management and development; Financial
management; Agricultural directed practices; Relevant legislation and policies;
Training programmes; Relevant service, research and farming machinery; Skills
needed: Written and verbal communication; Interpersonal; Change management;
Proven computer literacy; Supervisory; Analytical ability.
DUTIES : Manage and develop relevant quality training programmes; Client services/stakeholder
management and engagement/liaison; Policy determination; Financial management;
People management; Procurement management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Stander Tel No: (021) 808 5019
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/118 : PROJECT MANAGER: RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION-(ELSENBURG)
REF NO: AGR 23/2025
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Public Administration, Business Administration or Social Science; A minimum of 3
years’ experience in project planning, management, and coordination; 5 years’
experience in community and or stakeholder liaison in a development environment; 5
years exposure to community development and social cohesion initiatives; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: A relevant B-Degree. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
South African rural socio-economic context; Public Finance Management Act;
Strategic management procedures; Labour relations Act; Public service and
procedures; Supply chain management; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy;
Written and verbal communication; Analysing; Leading and supervising; Persuading
and influencing; Planning and organising; Deciding and initiating action; Working with
people; Delivering results and meeting customer expectations; Relating and
networking.
DUTIES : Manage and achieve the targets of the sub-programme towards rural development
coordination towards economic development in rural areas; Manage and achieve the
targets of the sub-programme social facilitation towards the improvement of socio-
economic development in rural areas; Manage and achieve the targets of the sub-
programme to enhance the image and socio-economic conditions of agri-workers;
Promote internal and external integration for the department; Provide human resource
management, financial management and strategic management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Pandaram Tel No: (021) 808 5362
79
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/119 : SENIOR LECTURER: VITICULTURE AND OENOLOGY REF NO: AGR 22/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Viticulture and
Oenology; A minimum of 6 years appropriate experience. Recommendation:
Successfully completed training as an assessor and/or moderator; Expertise to teach
related subject. Competencies: Proven knowledge of the subject field; Skills needed:
Supervisory and management; Communication (written and verbal); Computer literacy;
Leadership; Planning and Organising; Formal training and presentation.
DUTIES : Ensure that classes are conducted by supervisees; Develop and implement the
academic curriculum for the subject field; Conduct classes; Prepare lesson plans and
present practical, theoretical and/or short courses; Ensure that student advisory
services are provided; Perform and oversee administrative and related functions; Keep
abreast of the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments in the subject field; Renew and develop course material and study
guides.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Conradie Tel No: (021) 808 7701
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/120 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: POMOLOGIST (CALEDON) REF NO: AGR
31/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc Agric degree (NQF 8) or higher majoring in Pomology or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; Registered with SACNASP or any
other recognised professional body (Proof to be submitted); A minimum of 3 year’s
experience in pomology extension; A valid code B (or higher) driving license.
Recommendation: Relevant experience in fruit production. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Wine and Table grape production; Project management practices;
Land reform programme and project implementation; Following skills: Research;
Excellent written and verbal communication; Report writing; Sound organisational and
leadership abilities; Proven Computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Compilation of project submissions and the management of project implementation;
Conduct relevant development of farmers across all functions which include land
reform, infrastructure development project evaluation within the monitoring and
evaluation framework; Deliver continuous support to all farmers especially extension
and support on production and economic principles, institutional support as well as
capacity building of food security; Assist with research and demonstration trials;
Provide information on markets; Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to
determine the needs and progress; Write reports regarding technical progress;
Promote sustainable production system; Facilitate the development of organisational
skills of the developing agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant training as well as to
support projects; Participate as the member of the project team by giving sound and
technical input for the compilation of business plans; General office administration;
Ensure the implementation of Agricultural Information Management System
(AIMS);Facilitate, engage and provide inputs to implementing agencies and relevant
Commodity Project Allocation Committees (CPAC's)in the delivery and implementation
of projects; Lead, guide and provide support to lower level extension staff and admin
support staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Chitepo Tel No: (021) 808 5100
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/121 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: VITICULTURE (WELLINGTON) REF NO:
AGR 32/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
80
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc Agric degree (NQF 8) or higher majoring in Viticulture or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; Registered with SACNASP or any
other recognised professional body (Proof to be submitted); A minimum of 3 year’s
experience in Viticulture; A valid code B driving license. Recommendation: Relevant
experience in wine and table grape production. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Wine and Table grape production; Project management practices; Land
reform programme and project implementation; Following skills: Research; Excellent
written and verbal communication; Report writing; Sound organisational and leadership
abilities; Proven Computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Compilation of project submissions and the management of project implementation;
Conduct relevant development of farmers across all functions which include land
reform, infrastructure development project evaluation within the monitoring and
evaluation framework; Deliver continuous support to all farmers especially extension
and support on production and economic principles, institutional support as well as
capacity building of food security; Assist with research and demonstration trials;
Provide information on markets; Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to
determine the needs and progress; Write reports regarding technical progress;
Promote sustainable production system; Facilitate the development of organisational
skills of the developing agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant training as well as to
support projects; Participate as the member of the project team by giving sound and
technical input for the compilation of business plans; General office administration;
Ensure the implementation of Agricultural Information Management System
(AIMS);Facilitate, engage and provide inputs to implementing agencies and relevant
Commodity Project Allocation Committees (CPAC's)in the delivery and implementation
of projects; Lead, guide and provide support to lower level extension staff and admin
support staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Chitepo Tel No: (021) 808 5100.
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/122 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: LIVESTOCK (BEAUFORT WEST) REF NO:
AGR 33/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc Agric degree (NQF 8) or higher majoring in Livestock or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; Registered with SACNASP or any
other recognised professional body (Proof to be submitted); A minimum of 3 years
experience in agricultural extension; A valid code B driving license. Recommendation:
Relevant experience in animal production (livestock). Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Production of livestock; Project management practices; Land reform
programme and project implementation; Following skills: Research; Excellent written
and verbal communication; Report writing; Sound organisational and leadership
abilities; Proven Computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Compilation of project submissions and the management of project implementation;
Conduct relevant development of farmers across all functions which include land
reform, infrastructure development project evaluation within the monitoring and
evaluation framework; Deliver continuous support to all farmers especially extension
and support on production and economic principles, institutional support as well as
capacity building of food security; Assist with research and demonstration trials;
Provide information on markets; Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to
determine the needs and progress; Write reports regarding technical progress;
Promote sustainable production system; Facilitate the development of organisational
skills of the developing agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant training as well as to
support projects; Participate as the member of the project team by giving sound and
technical input for the compilation of business plans; General office administration;
Ensure the implementation of Agricultural Information Management System
(AIMS);Facilitate, engage and provide inputs to implementing agencies and relevant
Commodity Project Allocation Committees (CPAC's)in the delivery and implementation
of projects; Lead, guide and provide support to lower level extension staff and admin
support staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Erasmus Tel No: (023) 414 9202
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
81
POST 11/123 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: AGR 29/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN WELLINGTON
AND CERES)
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 036 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year qualification (NQF 8) in Agriculture or equivalent qualification
within Agricultural field as recognised by SAQA; Registered with SACNASP or any
other recognised professional body (Proof to be submitted); A valid code B (or higher)
driving license. NB People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following; Crop and animal production in the specific area, also markets and value
adding; Practical research; Land reform programme and project implementation;
Communication (written and verbal), leadership and presentation skills; Proven
computer literacy in MS Office(Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Outlook); Problem
solving(research skills; Good time management and the ability to work under pressure
(project implementation); Ability to work in a team; Prepare and deliver good
presentations.
DUTIES : Compilation of project submissions and project implementation; Conduct relevant
project evaluation within the monitoring and evaluation framework; Deliver continuous
support to all farmers, especially developing farmers across all functions, which include
land reform, infrastructure development, extension and support on production and
economic principles, institutional support as well as capacity building of food security;
Assist with research and demonstration trials under supervision; Provide information
on markets; Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to determine the needs and
progress; Write reports regarding technical progress; Promote sustainable production
systems; Facilitate the development of organisational skills of the developing
agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant training as well as to support projects; Participate
as the member of the project team by giving sound and technical input for the
compilation of business plans; General office administration; Ensure the
implementation of Agricultural Information Management System(AIMS); Facilitate,
engage and provide inputs to implementing agencies and relevant Commodity Project
Allocation Committees (CPAC’s) in the delivery and implementation of projects;
Practise Batho Pele principles; Uphold the Core Values of the Western Cape
Government.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Chitepo at Tel No: (021) 808 5100.
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/124 : CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE:
CENTRAL KAROO (LAINGSBURG) REF NO: AGR 24/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 - R396 522 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R419 325 - R449 079 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R472 812 - R556 080 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an
Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3years relevant post qualification technical
(engineering)experience. A valid driving license (Code B or higher). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project Management; Technical design and
analysis; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal
compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving
and analysis; Decision making; Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in field,
workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology and produce technical designs with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the relevant authority;
Perform administrative and related functions; Provide input into the budgeting process
as required; Compile and submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs
to the technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases; Supervise and control technical and related personnel and assets;
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
82
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders on
engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PJ Pienaar at (083) 649 9306
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/125 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE: EDEN
(OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: AGR 27/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 - R396 522 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R419 325 - R449 079 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R472 812 - R556 080 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an
Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant post qualification technical
(engineering)experience. A valid driving license (Code B or higher). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project Management; Technical design and
analysis; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal
compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving
and analysis; Decision making; Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in field,
workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology and produce technical designs with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the relevant authority;
Perform administrative and related functions; Provide input into the budgeting process
as required; Compile and submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs
to the technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases; Supervise and control technical and related personnel and assets;
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders on
engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Muller Tel No: (044) 803 3721
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/126 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE: EDEN
(RIVERSDALE) REF NO: AGR 28/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 - R396 522 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R419 325 - R449 079 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R472 812 - R556 080 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an
Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3years relevant post qualification technical
(engineering)experience. A valid driving license (Code B or higher). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project Management; Technical design and
analysis; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal
compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving
and analysis; Decision making; Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in field,
workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology and produce technical designs with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the relevant authority;
Perform administrative and related functions; Provide input into the budgeting process
as required; Compile and submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs
to the technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases; Supervise and control technical and related personnel and assets;
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up with
83
new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies technical engineering
technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders on engineering
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Muller Tel No: (044) 803 3721
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/127 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: RURAL DEVELOPMENT (OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
DIRECTOR)- ELSENBURG REF NO: AGR 25/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited secretarial
diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 or relevant
higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3years experience in rendering a support
service to management/ senior management. Recommendation: A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: Regulations/policies/prescripts and procedures; Office
Administration; Database Management; Information and Records Management;
Procurement processes; Financial administration; Functioning, systems and
processes of government. Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Client liaison and networking; Report writing; Research; Problem
solving; Good telephone etiquette; High level of reliability; Ability to communicate well
with people; Ability to act with text and discretion; Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations; Good grooming and presentation; Self-management and
motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director; Renders
administrative support services; Provide support to the Chief Director regarding
meetings and events; Supports the Chief Director with the administration of the Chief
Director’s budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application there-of is
properly understood.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Pandaram Tel No: (021) 8085362
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/128 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT AND
DEVELOPMENT (LADISMITH) REF NO: AGR 14/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: National Diploma
or equivalent qualification; Relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of effective records management system; Written and verbal
communication skills; Proven computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint); Interpersonal, organising and human relation skills; Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility; Ability to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Updating the registers and statistics; Handling routine enquires; Make photocopies and
receive or send e-mails/facsimile; Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required; Keep and maintain the filing system for projects in the sub-
directorate; Type letters and/or other correspondence when required; Keep and
maintain the income and outgoing document register of the component; Provide
secretariate assistance and logistical support with stakeholder engagements; Provide
clerical support with the compilation of training plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Burger Tel No: (044) 803 3747
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/129 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT AND
DEVELOPMENT (GOODWOOD) REF NO: AGR 15/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
84
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or higher)
driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: National Diploma
or equivalent qualification; Relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of effective records management system; Written and verbal
communication skills; Proven computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint); Interpersonal, organising and human relation skills; Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility; Ability to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Updating the registers and statistics; Handling routine enquires; Make photocopies and
receive or send e-mails/facsimile; Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required; Keep and maintain the filing system for projects in the sub-
directorate; Type letters and/or other correspondence when required; Keep and
maintain the income and outgoing document register of the component; Provide
secretariate assistance and logistical support with stakeholder engagements; Provide
clerical support with the compilation of training plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Obose Tel No: (021) 808 7082.
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/130 : FARM FOREMAN: FARM SERVICES (WORCESTER VELD RESERVE) REF NO:
AGR 21/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/Grade 12 (or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant
experience; A valid (Code 8) driving license. Recommendation: Practical experience
in the following: General farm work; Soil cultivation, preparation for different pastures
with tractors and various equipment (Handling of irrigation equipment/planting,
fertilising, spraying and harvesting of seeds for veld restoration); Cleaning, weighing,
sorting and packaging seeds and plant material harvested for veld restoration and
research; Assisting with preparation of veld research trials and data collection; Water
supply related activities/handling of tractors and equipment’s, tools, vehicles/fencing;
Maintenance of infrastructure; Supervision of personnel and admin related functions.
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Plant science and research:
General farm work; Maintenance of infrastructure; Supervision of personnel;
Administration related functions; Written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Overseeing routine activities in the following: Crop production; Animal production;
General farmwork; Infrastructure maintenance activities; Admin related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Swart Tel No: (021) 808 7809
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/131 : FARM AID: FARM SERVICES (OUTENIQUA) REF NO: AGR 20/2025
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and Numeracy (ABET level 3/Grade 7). Recommendation: Senior
Certificate (Grade 12); Proven experience in the following: General farm work; Working
with farm animals; Farm infrastructure construction and maintenance e.g. fencing,
building and water pipe systems. A valid (Code B or higher) driving license.
Competencies: Knowledge and skills of general farm work and maintenance;
Knowledge and skills of working with Research farm animals and pasture; Ability to
handle and carry weights of up to 50kg; Basic communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities of crop production e.g. planting, harvesting, irrigation;
Perform routine activities of livestock e.g. caring, dipping and dosing; Performing
general farm activities e.g. cleaning, loading and maintain water supply systems;
Perform general routine activities in respect of infrastructure e.g. maintain fences roads
and pipelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H.S Gerber Tel No: (044) 803 3727
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 02 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
85
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department
POST 11/132 : FARM AID: NUTRITION AND PRODUCT QUALITY (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR
26/2025
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and Numeracy (ABET level 3/Grade 7). A valid code B (or higher) driving
license. Recommendation: Relevant livestock farming experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of Livestock farming; Skills needed: Basic Communication; Good analytical
skills; Attention to detail, technical accuracy; Planning to meet strict deadlines; Ability
to follow procedures/methods; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Flock maintenance (routine tasks with sheep farming and research); Livestock care
and feeding; Research support with regards to sheep research being done; General
farm work; Infrastructure maintenance; Perform weekend duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Mulaudzi at (021) 808 5220
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1 Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 2 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department.
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/133 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES RELATIONS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: CAS 03/2025
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of An
appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 3 years’ management level experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: The business and organisational structure of the department; Corporate
governance requirements, with particular reference to prescribed plans and
86
committees (in as far as they relate to the work of the CSC); The provincial policies,
service level agreement and service schedules in terms of which the working
relationship with the CSC is managed; Human resources management systems (as
supervisor of own employees); Skills needed: Proven computer literacy in MS Office;
Planning and organising; Basic research; Analytical; Communication skill (written and
verbal); Conceptual, Interpretative and formulation; Ability to work independently and
as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage and report on contracts; Render a secretarial service to the bid committees;
Administer the bid process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Julie Tel No: (021) 483 3134
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/134 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ARCHIVES ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICE,
REF NO: CAS 05/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 2 years experience in Human resource and general administration.
Recommendation: Working knowledge of PERSAL or similar system. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Financial Management and Supply Chain management
Services and registry duties; Human Resource Management including Recruitment
and selection process; Budget management; Procedures in terms of the working
environment; Filing of HR documents; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS
Office); Written and verbal communication; Human Resource Planning; Finance and
Audit; Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Ability to deal with sensitive
matters.
DUTIES : Manage and report on contracts; Render a secretarial service to the bid committees;
Administer the bid process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Kupe Tel No: (021) 483 0411
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/135 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: CAS 07/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management, Public Management or Supply Chain Management; A minimum of 3
years relevant experience in a Supply Chain Management environment; A valid (Code
B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Financial Management; Public Finance Management;
Supply Chain Management; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS Office);
Written and verbal.
DUTIES : Manage and report on contracts; Render a secretarial service to the bid committees;
Administer the bid process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 2436
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/136 : LIBRARIAN: SELECTION REF NO: CAS 10/2025
SALARY : R308 154- R 362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Library Science/Information Sciences; A minimum of 1 year experience in collection
development and evaluation of library material Recommendation: Experience in the
following: Cataloguing experience using AACR2 or RDA; Afrikaans literature and
Afrikaans publishing industry; Electronic resources collection development.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Book knowledge; Library selection
procedures; Library Information Management System; MARC21; Budgeting; Skills
needed: Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication;
Attention to detail; High level reading ability; Planning and organisational; Time
management; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Evaluation of library material; Creation of bibliographic records; Collection
development; Promotion of library material.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Jonck Tel No: (021) 483 5475
87
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/137 : LIBRARIAN: CATALOGUING SECTION REF NO: CAS 11/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Library Science/Information Sciences; A minimum of 1 year experience in online
cataloguing and classification. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Collection
Development; Library and Information science; Prescripts and legislation; Library
Procedures and Processes; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and
verbal communication; Interpersonal and information interpretation; Document writing;
Good presentation and organising; Online searching; Online cataloguing; Problem
solving ability; The ability to work within teams and perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Cataloguing and classification of new library materials; Quality control of the Library
Information Management System database; Answering cataloguing queries and assist
with general office administration; Checking the cataloguing and classification of new
library materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Meyer Tel No: (021) 483 2441
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/138 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: KNOWLEDGE RESOURCES REF NO: CAS 15/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent); A minimum of 6 years administration
experience. Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Recreation,
MOD Programme, School Sport, Sport and Cultural; Knowledge resources and
management; Monitoring and evaluation; Mentoring, assessing and quality assurance;
Recreation, MOD Programme, School Sport and its activities and procedures;
Relevant recreation, MOD Programme, school sport and sport policies, rules and
regulations; The White Paper on Sport; The National Sport and Recreation Plan; The
Sport for Life Concept; Statuary prescripts surrounding the Public Service, e.g. Public
Service Act & Regulations and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); Knowledge
of the relevant regulations and processes
DUTIES : Contribute to the operational planning of the component by means of knowledge
resources input; Implement relevant knowledge resources related aspects of the
operational plan and achieving relevant objectives within the prescripts of the relevant
regulations; Manage and maintain the relevant business planning processes; Ensure
the directorate has effective knowledge resources management systems and
processes in place; Manage and facilitate the knowledge resources management
processes of the directorate; Provide relevant knowledge resources management
processes of the directorate; Monitoring and Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Petersen Tel No: (021) 483 9651
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/139 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: COMPETITIVE SPORT (EDEN DISTRICT) REF
NO: CAS 16/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Sport and Recreation. Recommendation: Relevant experience; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: National Sport and Recreation Plan; Public Finance Management Act;
Project Management; Sport federations, sport clubs, sport council and local
municipalities; Women in Sport Policy Framework; Safeguarding. Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Project management;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation structures;
Facilitate sustainable capacity development in clubs and federations. Implement sport
and recreation programmes in the district; Monitor and evaluate the compliance with
88
sport and recreation transformational policies; Render administrative functions in
relation to programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Allies Tel No: (021) 483 9780
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/140 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WESTERN CAPE LIBRARY SERVICES REF NO: CAS
04/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or higher)
driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Relevant
exposure/experience in a library environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Computerised Library Management system (LIMS); Asset control; Skills in
the following: Written and verbal communication; Computer skills in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Planning and organising; Interpersonal relations;
Teamwork; Clerical skills.
DUTIES : Administrative support to the region and affiliated public libraries; Provide asset control
support services; Provide personnel administration support services within the office;
Provide financial administration support services in the regional office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mxokozeli at Tel No: (021) 483 2286
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/141 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LIBRARY SERVICE (BEAUFORT WEST) REF NO:
CAS 06/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or higher)
driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Relevant
exposure/experience in a library environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Computerised Library Management system (LIMS); Asset management.
Skills in the following: Written and verbal communication; Computer skills in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Planning and organising; Interpersonal
relations; Teamwork; Clerical skills.
DUTIES : Administrative support to the region and affiliated public libraries; Provide asset control
support services; Provide personnel administration support services within the office;
Provide financial administration support services in the regional office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mbanga Tel No: (044) 814 1490
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/142 : COMMUNITY SPORT COORDINATOR REF NO: CAS 08/2025
(3-Year Contract in Overberg District)
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1year
experience in sport administration and club development; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: A good understanding
of the following: Procurement processes (SCM); Club Development programme;
Information management; Sport Federations and Sport Councils; Skills needed:
Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication; Report
writing; Interpersonal; Ability to work independently and as part of a team
DUTIES : Maintain records of registered and supported leagues and clubs; Data collection;
Provide support to federations that are in the Club Development Programme;
Monitoring and reporting monthly and quarterly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Allies Tel No: (021) 483 9780
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
89
POST 11/143 : FINANCE CLERK: LIBRARY ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
CAS 09/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Recommendation: Experience
in a supply chain management environment. Competencies: A good understanding of
the following: Financial Management; Public Finance Management; Supply Chain
Management; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal
communication; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Placing of new orders on relevant computer system; Receiving and paying of library
material; Completing payment advice; Capturing data information for payments on
relevant computer system; Transfer records of orders from old financial year to new
financial year; Deal with all telephone queries re. Library material ordered, problems
with deliveries or invoices and the reinstating of orders; Control payment summary
sheets against internal spread sheet; Keep monthly statistics of library material
ordered; Assist as required with other staff duties on leave; Reconciliation of
processing of payments; Filling and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 2436
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/144 : LIBRARY AID: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (LIBRARY ADMINISTRATIVE
SUPPORT SERVICE) REF NO: CAS 12/2025
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate (Grade 10). Competencies: A good understanding in the following:
Stock, stores, control measures; Skills needed: Communication skills (written and
verbal); Computer literacy; Ability to work independently as well as part of a team;
Numeracy and literacy.
DUTIES : Effective processing of goods delivered by suppliers: Receive goods and check
amount against delivery note or invoice; Check for any damage or breakage of items
received; Sin for receipt if correct; Report any discrepancies immediately; Open and
unpack boxes; Verify the batch order numbers on invoice; Pack and store good
delivered; Write date of receival on the bin card; Issuing and maintenance of stock;
Take items from shelves according to requisition; Place items on trolley according to
the order for checking on collection; Notify departments to collect items and obtain
signed delivery note as proof of receipt; Pack items requested for outside regions and
take to the central store on the ground floor for easy loading; Report any shortages to
the supervisor; Weekly checking of stock levels; Updating of bin cards; Inform
supervisors in cases of low levels that need replacement; Keep work store neat and
tidy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 2436
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 2 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department.
POST 11/145 : LIBRARY MATERIAL PROCESSOR: TECHNICAL SERVICES REF NO: CAS
13/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate (Grade 10). Recommendation: Experience in an assembly belt or
factory environment. Competencies: A good understanding in the following:
90
Processing of books; Library and Information Management System; Skills needed:
Communication skills (written and verbal); Computer literacy; Ability to work
independently as well as part of a team; Numeracy and literacy.
DUTIES : Paste date slips; Affix spine labels; Cover the books; Enter records on the SLIMS
database Dispatch the books using the library information management system;
Dispatch the books to the various regions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Meyer Tel No: (021) 483 2441
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 2 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department.
POST 11/146 : LIBRARY MATERIAL PROCESSOR: TECHNICAL SERVICES REF NO: CAS
14/2025
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate (Grade 10). Competencies: A good understanding in the following:
Stock, stores, control measures; Skills needed: Communication skills (written and
verbal); Computer literacy; Numeracy and literacy.
DUTIES : Collect, count and check files of books in the stores; Paste packets and date slips to
the books and submit master copy of completed list to machine room; Dispatch books
to various regions; Ensure that books are boxed, weighed and submitted to courier;
Ensure that spine labels are pasted on the books; Write and count titles after
completion; Bar code, laminate books and record in file; Cover books, count the copies
and record in file; Verify and search for information on the daily list by searching the
SLIMS database before books are dispatched; Ensure that the dispatch of library
materials are computerised; Enter item records on the SLIMS database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 2436
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 2 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department.
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates must
make themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as decided by
91
the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your application on or before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered. The selection process will be
guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Kindly note that technical
support is only available from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you
experience any difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at
0861 370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment
tools. The nominated candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific training
programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that
potential SMS members have a background on processes and procedures linked to
the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours (15
days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/ Furthermore,
thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications for our positions, and
as such will not be able to respond personally to all applications. Therefore, should you
not hear from us within 10 weeks from close of advert please consider your application
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/147 : DIRECTOR: SPATIAL PLANNING REF NO: EADP 02/2025)
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial level within the spatial planning or town and
regional planning or development planning sector; Registration as a Professional
Planner with SACPLAN. Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS
(Senior Management Service) prior to appointment: Recommendation: A post-
graduate degree (NQF 8 or higher) in Urban / Town / City and Regional Planning, or
equivalent will be an added advantage. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Specialist knowledge of the current international, national, provincial and municipal
spatial planning & land use management governance frameworks (statutory and
strategic) OR Development Planning governance frameworks, legislation, policies,
strategies. Specialist knowledge of the theory and practice of regional, spatial /
strategic spatial planning policy OR development planning and facilitation. Advanced
knowledge of strategy development, strategy implementation and management and
strategy monitoring and review processes, preferably in development planning.
Advanced knowledge of monitoring, evaluation and reporting, preferably in the field of
spatial planning performance management. Advanced knowledge of methodology and
research trends regarding spatial / development planning. Knowledge of human
resource management. Knowledge of modern systems of Public Sector financial
management, governance and administration. Basic knowledge of the latest advances
in management theory and practice. Knowledge of the South African policies of the
government of the day and the policy formulation, implementation and monitoring
processes utilized. Knowledge of global, regional, and local political, economic, and
social affairs impacting on South Africa and the Western Cape. Knowledge of
Constitutional, legal, intergovernmental relations and institutional arrangements
governing the South Africa Public Sector. Skills in the following: Strategic Capability
and Leadership: Systems thinking | Conceptual |Analytical/Critical thinking | Research
Programme and Project Management: Project management | Planning and organising
| Numeracy Change Management & Values Based Development Financial
Management: basic budgeting and accounting People management and
empowerment: Team building | Ability to work independently and as part of a team |
Inter-personal relations | People management Communication, Report writing &
Language skills (written and verbal) Basic legislative interpretation Computer literacy:
Geospatial Information Systems, Data Analytics and Management Systems, MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc.).
DUTIES : Line Management: Ensure the effective provision of provincial spatial planning and
development services; Lead and manage the provision of spatial planning oversight,
support and advisory services to municipal spatial planning in the province, and
92
provincial and regional spatial planning and implementation; Lead the Provincial
participation in and support to National Spatial Planning. Strategic Management: To
define and review on a continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities
of the Directorate. Participation in the Chief Directorate, and Directorate’s strategic
planning process. Active involvement in the development and management of the
strategic and business plans for the Directorate. To evaluate the performance of the
Directorate on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives
and standards. To report to the Chief Director: Development Planning on a regular
basis on the activities of the Directorate and on matters of substantial importance. To
monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in respect of
adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Directorate, and of the
resources employed by it. Financial Management: Manage participation in the
budgeting process at Directorate level. Ensure the preparation of the annual and
adjustment budgets for the Directorate. Assume direct accountability for the efficient,
economic and effective control and management of the Directorate’s budget and
expenditure. Human Resource Management: Participate in the recruitment of
employees in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the
Directorate’s strategic and business plans. Motivate, train and guide employees within
the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively
manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of employees within the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Mabusela Tel No: (021) 483 4666
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this advertisement to
achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in employment through the
elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time
and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess personnel will
receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/148 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY: CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 472 673 per annum
Grade 2: R1 680 780 per annum
Grade 3: R1 835 835 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross Childrens War Memorial Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Sub-
Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub-
Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Sub-Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Sub-Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Inherent
requirement of the job: Post specialisation experience in Paediatric Intensive Care
including peri-operative care of cardio-thoracic, neuro-surgical and trauma patients is
essential. A valid driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory 16 hours per
week. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills
Ability to work under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary team Proven Leadership abilities Experience in
supervision of staff and students Proven knowledge/skills and experience in principles
of service planning, organizing, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Within the PICU and 16 hours per week commuted overtime.
Provide comprehensive, high-quality paediatric critical care clinical services.. Conduct
ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings, Morbidity and mortality meetings.
Manage and effectively/efficiently use allocated resources. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Teaching: Undergraduate & post graduate students,
nursing staff, rotating registrars / medical officers and senior registrars. Research:
93
Participation in existing and conducting new research projects within the department
and stay abreast of clinical developments. Administration: Liaising with Hospital
management and the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Shamiel Salie: shamiel.salie@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/149 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901 per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
in General Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist
in General Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system. Valid Driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical and surgical competency in General
Surgery. Ability to work in a high-volume clinic and surgical environment. Computer
literacy, database knowledge, research experience, interest in data collection and
analysis for service improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care delivery,
diversity, transformation and equity. Experience in supervision and training of staff and
students at under- and post-graduate levels.
DUTIES : Oversight of the Acute Care Surgery and Trauma Unit. Supervision and training of
junior surgical staff. Participation in under- and post-graduate academic activities.
Clinical service delivery in accordance with the needs of the Division of General
Surgery.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Marszalek Tel No: (021) 3774300
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/150 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901 per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
94
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs.
CENTRE : Paarl Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Specialist in
Psychiatry. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
a Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign qualified employees). Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB/C1)
driver’s license. Communicate (verbal, read, write) Available and willing to participate
in after-hours duties; if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong record of
clinical expertise, clinical governance, research, teaching and training at under and
postgraduate levels. Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise clinical
training and teaching. Appropriate experience in teaching, training and supervision of
students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients. Perform outreach
services within the hospital catchment area. Management of relevant clinical
governance, resource stewardship and administrative requirements. Leadership of a
multi-disciplinary clinical team. Clinical teaching, training, and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Prinsloo Tel No: (021) 860 2500 or charl.prinsloo@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Rural
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/151 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901 per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
(It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate in a system of
remunerated commuted overtime). A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in
General Surgery. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in General Surgery.
Inherent requirement of job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA (or as recognised
foreign Health Professional council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
work in a high-volume clinic and surgical environment. Clinical and surgical
competency in General Surgery and Upper GI Surgery. Computer literacy and interest
in data collection for service improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care
delivery, diversity, transformation and equity. Experience in supervision and training of
staff and students at under- and post-graduate levels.
DUTIES : General and Upper GI surgery specialist clinical service provision in the Groote Schuur
Hospital Division of General Surgery (Upper GI Unit and Acute Care Surgery Unit)
General Surgery specialist clinical services in the Division of General Surgery at the
95
hospitals on the platform serviced by the division. Supervision and training of junior
surgical staff. Participation in under- and post-graduate divisional activities.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Cairncross Tel No: (021) 406- 6229
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/152 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901 per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs.
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code
B/EB/C1) driver’s license. Available and willing to participate in after-hours duties, if
required. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist
in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist
in Psychiatry. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong record of clinical expertise,
clinical governance, research, teaching, and training at under and postgraduate levels.
Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative, communication,
analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise clinical training and teaching.
Appropriate experience in teaching, training, and supervision of students, Registrars
and Medical Staff.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients. Perform outreach
services within the hospital catchment area. Management of relevant clinical
governance, resource stewardship and administrative requirements. Leadership of a
multi-disciplinary clinical team. Clinical teaching, training, and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Prinsloo Tel No: (021) 860-2500 or charl.prinsloo@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Rural
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/153 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (PULMONOLOGY)
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 271 901 per annum. A portion of the package can be structured according to the
individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
96
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Inherent requirement of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective and
efficient administration. MMED and FCP (SA) qualifications. Clinical Skills required of
a Medical Specialist Physician (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient,
outpatient, and emergency contexts). Knowledge appropriate for approach to
investigations of common respiratory disorders. Communication including report
generation, letter writing, consultation. Facilitation of management systems.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical Governance and Administration. Clinical Service
provision. Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof K Dheda Tel No: (021) 404 7654 or pat.wileman@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s
ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may
be called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West
and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George
Provincial Hospital. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist
positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will
be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre
in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be required to register
as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/ University of Cape Town according to
the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council
are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)
Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years.
Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary
packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled
to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/154 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALTY) PAEDIATRIC CARDIOLOGY
(36-Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 271 901 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according to the
individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualifications that allow registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
in Paediatrics. Registration with a Professions Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirements of the job: FCPaed and
MMed (Paed) is a requirement. Must provide after-hours emergency services and
participate in commuted overtime at 16-hours per week within the Department of
Paediatrics and Child Health platform. A valid driver’s license. Experience in general
paediatrics at postgraduate level. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal, communication and teamwork skills. Ability to work under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to supervise
medical students and rotating registrars.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Comprehensive Cardiology clinical care and service delivery
in the Western Cape Paediatric Cardiology service outpatient and inpatient setting
under the direction of specialist supervisors. After hours calls as for senior registrars
in the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health (UCT) and responsible to the director
of the registrar programme. Administration and management as may be necessary to
maintain the efficient running of the ward or service to which currently attached.
Teaching: Undergraduate students and junior staff. Case presentations, webinars and
97
academic meetings. Research: Involvement with existing research projects, clinical
reviews, audits and clinical trials. The post holder is expected to conduct a research
project towards producing a Master’s (MPhil) thesis through UCT. Learning: Rotation
through areas of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Tygerberg Hospital and
allied institutions. To acquire training in Paediatric Cardiology including completing the
required training logbook and to successfully pass the College of Medicine of South
Africa Fellowship in Paediatric Cardiology examination so as to enable certification as
a paediatric cardiologist with the HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Comitis, George.comitis@uct.ac.za, Tel No: (021) 658-5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required when applying for
this post. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Employees in service who opt
to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to resign
after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised
Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles
of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an
indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be
given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/
University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform
and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red
Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein
District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply
for the first time for registration with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status) Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a
maximum contract period of 2 years. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary
position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression.
Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/155 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 2 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Experience: Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of
SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration
as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. -Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Registration with a
Professional Council: Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid South African (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and skills in obstetrics and gynaecology
care. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of staff. Experience to perform a
Caesarean section safely and without supervision; with a minimum of 50 Caesarean
98
Sections done independently in the last 5 years. Computer literacy Candidate obtained
FCOG (SA) Part 1 or DipObst (SA).
DUTIES : Clinical triage and management of all non-acute and emergency O&G presentation to
the Labour Suite at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Managing critically ill patients
including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of students, interns and midwives.
Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters
and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and leadership towards the realization of
strategic goals and objectives of the department. Ensure a cost-efficient service at
clinical level with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TA Horak Tel No: (021) 659 5579
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/156 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (GENERAL SURGERY) (X2 POSTS)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R949 146 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according to the
individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in
a specific training complex but could be required to work across the platform on
request. FCS part 1 as well as at least 2 years clinical experience in Surgery and/or
Trauma. A current certificate of ATLS and Basic Surgical Skills course completed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCS part 2 and experience in research/publications.
Effective leadership and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provision of safe surgical care to patients. Peri-operative care of surgical patients.
Participation in Intensive Care management. Learn the art and science of general
surgery, trauma, and burn care. Attend tutorials and assist with the training of interns,
medical students, nursing staff and paramedics. On-site after-hours duties relating to
care of newly arriving acute patients as well as inpatients. Involvement in
research/audits relating to surgery, trauma, and burn care.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs M Brand – mbran@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision
being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed
programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be given
to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their
existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who
opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. -The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will
be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part
of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line
with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with Stelllenbosch University according to the yearbook and guidelines.”
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/157 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R949 146 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
99
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Officer.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as independent
medical practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of
SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration
as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Participate in the after-hours
call system and perform outreach in the Paarl Hospital ecosystem. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing, and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, clinical guidelines, and
related prescripts to manage resources effectively. Strong managerial and supervisory
skills are needed. Proven ability to safely manage an Orthopaedic ward and
Orthopaedic emergencies independently. Proven ability to perform Orthopaedic
trauma & elective theatre procedures. At least 24 months prior experience working in
a dedicated level two Orthopaedic unit will be an advantage. Proven ability to manage
non-acute Orthopaedic patients. Basic surgical skills (BSS)or Basic and Essential
Surgical skills training (BESST) certification. Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS)
certification. Completion of the AO Basic principles in fracture management.
Completion of the CMSA Higher Diploma in Orthopaedics will be advantageous.
Completion of the CMSA FC (Orth) Intermediate examination will be advantageous.
DUTIES : Ensure a safe, efficient, and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a patient
centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Paarl Health Ecosystem:
Performing Orthopaedic elective and trauma procedures, including reduction &
splinting of fractures/dislocations, application of cones calipers and reducing cervical
facet dislocations; open fracture debridement & external fixation, arthrotomy for septic
arthritis; fixation of long bone fractures etc. Managing patients with long term
Orthopaedic Musculo-skeletal conditions in an outpatient setting. M&M audits &
presentations. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high quality and
comprehensive clinical records. Comply with all the relevant administrative policies and
prescripts of the Western Cape Department of Health and Wellness. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Participate and clinical
teaching and training activities. Participate in continuous professional development
and improvement activities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J van Dyk (email: Johannes.vanDyk@westerncape.gov.za, Tel No: (021) 860-2860
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed
into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration
in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/158 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R949 146 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
100
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs.
CENTRE : Macassar Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner
with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s
license. Willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including drug resistant TB and HIV in
children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good communication,
good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to do
outreach services to clinics throughout the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure, guiding
health care colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
Primary Health Care facilities. Provide an outreach and support service to PHC
facilities in the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure. Provide an efficient administration
service regarding clinical and non-clinical matters. Relevant administration as required
for Medical Legal purposes. Ensure a cost-effective service at clinical level with regards
to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment. Actively
participate in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post.
Active involvement in the clinical governance of Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Witbooi Tel No: (021) 360 4386
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Department for a period
of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and
oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/159 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (FAMILY MEDICINE) (X2 POSTS)
Central Karoo District
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R949 146 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to the
individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Professional Support Service
Central Karoo District Office
Central Karoo District (Stationed at Beaufort-West Hospital with associated Primary
Health
Care Centres and short training opportunities at George Regional Hospital as needed).
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license and
101
willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime. Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (i.e., MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint
and internet research). Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Good
interpersonal and time-management skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision. Participate in the Teaching program. Research and
Professional Development (incl. completion of MMED). Effective Clinical
Administration in patient records and patient reports.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Hendriks Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Preference will be
given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply
for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). ii) Other: Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with the applicable University in the Western
Cape according to the requirements for the discipline in the yearbook and guidelines.”
-Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary
packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled
to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract
period of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should
they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should registration with the
HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also
discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations.
Applications will also be considered for similar posts that becomes vacant in the
Central Karoo District for a period of 3 months. All applicants are required to apply
simultaneously to the relevant university when they submit their application. The links
to the applications portals are as follows: Stellenbosch University:
http://www.sun.ac.za/english/maties/apply. It may become necessary to
second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their period of training, in
which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented.
Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/160 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (DENTAL MAXILLO FACIAL & ORAL SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R921 906 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dentist. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Dentist. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees 1-year relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees Minimum of 8 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional
council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12 years’
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in
respect of SA-qualified employees Minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional council in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service,
as necessary in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Special interest in the discipline of Maxillo Facial &
Oral Surgery, including the medically compromised patients.
102
DUTIES : All assigned clinical cases as per duty/clinical roster, including clinical supervision.
Undergraduate Maxillo Facial & Oral Surgery clinical teaching and training.
Undergraduate research projects as well as Dept clinical research. Maxillo Facial &
Oral Surgery patients records and administration. Teaching and Learning.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Behardien Tel No: (021) 937-3081
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/161 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1
SALARY : R920 082 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to the
individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate Bachelor's degree or diploma or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SACSSP as a Social Worker.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SACSSP as a Social
Worker. Experience: A minimum of 10 years of appropriate experience in social work
after registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent communication skills (written, verbal), advanced report
writing and strong administrative skills. Good organisational, decision-making and
conflict resolution skills. Strong leadership, motivational and interpersonal skills and
ability to work in a team. Knowledge of national, provincial and institutional health
delivery systems. Relevant and recognizable clinical, supervisory and managerial
experience in a Social Work department in a tertiary hospital setting. Experience in
teaching and/ or supervision of undergraduate Social Work students. Understanding
of quality assurance and strong commitment to high service standards.
DUTIES : Management competencies including human and physical resource management,
strategic and operational planning and implementation, as well as financial
management. Maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and staff
development. Deliver a support service to the Allied Health Sciences Department of
Groote Schuur Hospital. Represent Groote Schuur Hospital, Social Work department
and Allied Health Professions at provincial and national platforms. Promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards. Manage
add utilise staff, financial and physical resources effectively to ensure optimal
operational functioning of the Social Work department. Co-ordinate and participate in
the training of staff and students as well as promoting research with the Social Work
department. Responsible for planning, managing, coordinating and maintaining an
optimal Social Work service aligned with the strategic core business of Groote Schuur
Hospital and the Western Cape Department of Health and Wellness.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Naidoo - Lionel.Naidoo@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/162 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGER
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R849 702 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3- year Degree/ Diploma in Finance,
Accounting, Audit or related field as recognized by SAQA. Experience: Appropriate
management experience. Appropriate experience in compilation of AFS/ IFS in line
with the Modified Cash Standards. Appropriate experience in financial management
aspects, including auditing, AFS, accounting and budgeting. Appropriate experience
in risk analysis and development of risk mitigating processes, such as development of
103
training interventions. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) manual
driver’s license. Willingness to travel and spend periods away from home. Ability to
work under pressure and a high degree of accuracy. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of accounting policies. Knowledge of computerised Management systems,
finance and auditing. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills. Advanced
Computer Literacy. Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the Annual Financial Statement and Audit Control processes of the
Department. Training of officials i.r.o. compilation of AFS/ IFS information.
Development and monitoring of audit improvement plans. Continuous enhancement of
Financial Statement and audit processes to ensure positive audit outcomes. Analysis
of financial information. 30-day payment reporting. Staff management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Small Tel No: (021) 483-6878
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates may be required to complete a competency test. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/163 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL CLINICAL SERVICE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R827 211 per annum
Grade 2: R961 806 per annum
Grade 3: R1 113 600 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Brackengate Transitional Care Facility & Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical
Psychologist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA
qualified employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 8
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect
of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 16 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and/or
experience in counselling, psychometric assessments, and identification of mental
health challenges. Work within your professional scope of practice and know when to
refer for more specialized mental health interventions, must be abreast of the Mental
Health Care Act and other laws and policies pertaining to the field and have a sound
knowledge of professional ethics. Computer literacy (i.e., MS Word, PowerPoint and
Excel). Good intra- and interpersonal skills aimed at professional relational
development, maintenance of good professional relations and effective conflict
resolution. Adaptable and innovative in a high-pressured environment and to work
independently and in different clinical settings. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that mental health services include treatment, prevention, promotion and
protection of mental health care users and other vulnerable groups through relevant
intervention programs and strategies. Ensure that quality mental health services are
provided according to professional standards and ethical principles. Establish Referral
pathways and coordination with all stakeholders. Inter-sectoral and inter-disciplinary
collaboration and coordination. Provide supervision, mentoring and support to entire
multidisciplinary team regarding mental health.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Christoffels Tel No: (021) 834-5829
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : The post is advertised on joint conditions of employment between the Western Cape
Department of Health and the Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health (University
of Cape Town). No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
104
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/164 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY) (5/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R794 937 per annum
Grade 2: R907 008 per annum
Grade 3: R1 050 489 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Obsavatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
in Orthopaedic Surgery. Registration with the professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic
Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist
in Orthopaedic Surgery. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a high-
volume clinic and surgical environment. Computer literacy and interest in data
collection for service improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care delivery,
diversity, transformation and equity. Experience in supervision and training of staff and
students at under- and post-graduate levels. Clinical experience in Orthopaedic trauma
and foot/ ankle surgery. Clinical and surgical competency in orthopaedic surgery.
DUTIES : Supervision and training of junior surgical staff. Participation in under- and post-
graduate divisional activities. Orthopaedic trauma surgery specialist clinical service
provision across the Western Metropole platform as service requirements dictate.
ENQUIRIES : Prof RN Dunn Tel No: (021) 404-5108
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/165 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREA: THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R656 964 per annum
CENTRE : Hope Street Oral Health Clinic, Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with
a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Operating Theatre, Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to relief across the Sub-structure as well as after hour call as needed Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Experience in an oral
health setting would be an advantage. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office, Excel.) Ability to communicate in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related
105
to the nursing specialty. Managerial experience. Knowledge of people and financial
management Effective communication, interpersonal, good organizational leadership,
decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Ability to function independently, as well
as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Strategic planning and Operational management of a health facility (Leadership,
internal and external governance) Plan, co-ordinate and implementation of clinical
services and maintain an optimal, specialized Nursing Care as an Operational
Manager in theatre setting. Integrated services delivery in rendering comprehensive
health to achieve the departmental objective. Effective management of Corporate
Governance (People Management, Financial Management and Supply Chain
Management), Responsible for Quality Management and Quality Assurance Health
Strategy and Support (Information management, Pharmacy Services and laboratory
services) Infrastructure and facilities management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Appolis Tel No: (021) 202-0933/202-0883
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed candidates
may be subject to competency testing.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/166 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
PROGRAMMES/SERVICES (FACILITY BASED SERVICES)
(Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services)
SALARY : R656 964 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing (SANC) Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Appropriate experience in health programmes:
Maternal/Women/Child/Adolescent Health, Nutrition, HIV & TB Services. Appropriate
financial planning and management experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The ability to function independently and within a multi-disciplinary
team. Knowledge of the District Health Services (DHS), Facility Based Services,
Community Orientated Primary Health Care (COPC), Health Programme Policies and
Guidelines. Good interpersonal, collaborative and leadership skills. Solid health
information system/data management, analysis, and interpretation abilities. Computer
literacy and good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Management and Implementation of Integrated Comprehensive Health
Programmes/Services. Oversee the co-ordination and execution of various health
initiatives, including Facility-Based Services. Priority service areas include Maternal,
Women, Child, Adolescent Health, Nutrition, Disease Outbreak Response, HIV & TB
Programmes. Enhance, Support and Strengthen the DHS, prioritize health services
and promote community-orientated primary care. Effective Human Resources
management to foster a skilled workforce. Ensure sustainable financial management
of NPO funding and provincially earmarked resources. Monitoring and evaluation of
priority service objectives, performance targets and indicators. Manage the
implementation of continuous quality improvement initiatives to enhance service
delivery and ensure compliance. Manage and co-ordinate training programmes in
collaboration with the Human Resource Development and Training Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Cottee Tel No: (021) 202-0925
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/167 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
PROGRAMMES/SERVICES (COMMUNITY BASED SERVICES)
(Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services)
SALARY : R656 964 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
106
Nursing (SANC) Council as Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum
of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at management level.
Appropriate experience in health services: Community Based Services & HIV & TB
services. Appropriate financial planning and management experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to function independently and within a
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of the District Health Services (DHS), Community
Based Services, Community Orientated Primary Health Care (COPC), Health
Programme Policies and Guidelines. Good interpersonal, collaborative and leadership
skills. Extensive knowledge of Financial Management environment and Health
Service-related contract management. Solid health information system/data
management, analysis, and interpretation abilities. Computer literacy and good report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Management and Implementation of Integrated Comprehensive Health
Programmes/Services. Oversee the co-ordination and execution of various health
initiatives, including Community-Based Services. Priority service areas include
Community Based Services, Wellness Services, Transitional Care Services and
Mental Health Programmes. Enhance, Support and Strengthen the DHS, prioritize
health services and promote community-orientated primary care. Effective Human
Resources management to foster a skilled workforce. Ensure sustainable financial
management of NPO funding and provincially earmarked resources. Monitoring and
evaluation of priority service objectives, performance targets and indicators. Manage
the implementation of continuous quality improvement initiatives to enhance service
delivery and ensure compliance. Co-ordinate training programmes in collaboration with
the Human Resource Development and Training Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Cottee Tel No: (021) 202-0925
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/168 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL: INTERNAL
MEDICINE WARD)
Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R520 560 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree) in
Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. Registration with the professional
Council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. Inherent requirement of the
job: A valid driver’s license. Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, and weekend cover for Nursing
Management. Work night-duty on a planned schedule to relieve Night Nursing
Managers. Deputising for the Assistant Manager Nursing. Experience: A minimum of
7 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively both verbal and written. Basic
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge and insight
of nursing and other relevant legislation and policies relating to nursing in the public
sector and their impact on service delivery. Ability to facilitate and promote quality
patient care through setting, implementation and monitoring of standards. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team within a Functional
Business Unit (FBU)structure. Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational,
decision-making, conflict resolution (labour relations and disciplinaries) and the ability
to function under pressure.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal quality nursing service as an Operational Manager.
Participative management and utilisation of human resources to fulfil operational and
developmental functions in the areas. Manage and monitor financial resources of the
clinical areas. Initiate and actively participate in training, development, and research,
including quality training and implementation within the Nursing Division. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Service and the institution. To maintain ethical
standards, promote professional growth, self-development, including leadership skills
and behaviours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 or Anthea.Solomons@westerncape.gov.za
107
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/169 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: GRADE 1 (GENERAL: POST NATAL)
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R520 560 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree) in
Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) in Professional Nurse and Midwife/Accoucheur. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife/Accoucheur. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, and weekend cover
for Nursing Management. Work night-duty on a planned schedule to relieve Night
Nursing Managers. Deputising for the Assistant Manager Nursing. Ability to
communicate effectively (both written and verbal). Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to facilitate and promote quality patient care
through setting, implementation and monitoring of standards. Ability to function
independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team within a Functional Business
Unit (FBU)structure. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and
Outlook). Knowledge and insight of nursing- and other relevant legislation and policies
relating to nursing in the public sector and their impact on service delivery. Effective
interpersonal, strong leadership, organisational, decision-making, conflict resolution
(labour relations and disciplinaries) and the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal quality nursing service as an Operational Manager.
Participative management and utilisation of human resources to fulfil operational and
developmental functions in the areas. Manage and monitor financial resources of the
clinical areas. Initiate and actively participate in training, development, and research,
including quality training and implementation within the Nursing Division. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Service and the institution. To maintain ethical
standards, promote professional growth and self-development, including leadership
skills and behaviours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Fourie Tel No: (021) 860 2696/2522.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/170 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: OPD:
ONCOLOGY)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Oncological
Nursing. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Oncological Nursing science after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, overtime, day and night duty,
weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to
rotate to the oncology and chemotherapy clinics within the Paediatric outpatient
department and General outpatient department. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western
Cape. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Oncology and Outpatients’ Department.
108
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs, the
planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing
personnel as a Professional Nurse in an Oncology service. Render and supervise
specialized clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with surgical and medical
procedures. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and development of self &
others. Display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CA Jansen van Vuuren Tel No: (044) 802-4582
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical. “Candidates who are not in possession of the required
qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to
obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in the post basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Oncological Nursing with the South African Nursing Council.” The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/171 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: NEURO CLINIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science. Registration with
a Professional Council: -Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends and public holidays to meet operational requirements. It will be required of
the incumbent to rotate within the hospital.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human, financial and physical
resources (equipment and consumables). Participation in appropriate personal
/professional development activities: Self, students, other categories of staff. Ensure
efficient and accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and
participation in research activities. Assist with the development and the implementation
of nursing quality improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fredericks Tel No: (021) 940-4416
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into the general stream,
and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications within a predetermined
period. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment
on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council
and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to
candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in
Advanced Psychiatry. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts
within the Chief Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
109
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/172 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425(Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse. At least 10 years referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Operating Theatre after obtaining the 1- year
post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and weekends to meet
the operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
communicate effectively (both written and verbal). Ability to function independantly, as
well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan
organise and the service by analysing, problem, problem solving and decision making.
Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of Intesive and
High Care Unit. Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s license. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs, the
planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing
personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific specialty clinical area. Render and
supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with procedures
within the specific clinical specialty unit. Utilise human, material and physical resources
and development of self and others. Display core values of the Department of Health
and Wellness (WCG)on the execution of duties, while practicing within the legislation,
regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Smith Tel No: (021) 860 2839 or emily.smith@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into the general
stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications within a
predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic
qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Rural
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/173 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2(SPECIALTY: CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with
duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Child Nursing Science or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
110
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirement of the job: To work shifts and after-hours including
weekends, public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other departments within the
Critical Care unit. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and
understanding of nursing and health service-related acts, legislation, policies and
practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer
skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to lift and turn patients,
stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and within
a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Critical Care units. Maintain
a constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in research and
training and development of community, staff and students to achieve optimal health
care of Critical Care patients. Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with
administrative duties, e.g. data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Smith Tel No: (021) 860 2839 or emily.smith@westerncape.gov
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the general stream,
and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined
period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic
qualification in: Medical & Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General.
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Groote Schuur
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/174 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OBSTETRICS)
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade
1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatology Nursing Science, after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: Registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours,
night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Deputising for the Operational Manager:
Nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Power point and Outlook). Implement skills to plan and organise the service by
problem solving and decision making. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic
goals and objectives in the Obstetrics Departement. Ability to function independantly ,
as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Ability to
communicate effectively (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Display of core values of the Department of Health & Wellness in the WCH. In the
execution of duties, while practising within the legislation, regulations and protocols
applicable to the public service. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical
standards and development of self and others. Render and supervise specialized
clinical nursing care and support staff with surgical and medical procedures. Ensure
quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing needs, the planning &
implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing personal as
Professional Nurse in Paediatric department. Utilise human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively.
111
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Fourie Tel No: (021) 8602696/2522.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are not
in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the general stream,
and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined
period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic
qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within the Paarl Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/175 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: INTENSIVE CARE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALAY : Grade 1: R451 533 per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year in Medical & Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care: Child.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Intensive /Critical care after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
overtime, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills: Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan, organise &
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving & decision making. Leadership
towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the Intensive and High care
unit.
DUTIES : Use expert knowledge and skills to ensure quality appropriate adult and paediatric
patient care is met and delivered by the nursing and clinical team including
identification and prevention of risks. Participate in quality improvement
implementation by providing effective direction, supervision and education of nursing
personnel as a Professional Nurse in the Intensive/High-care unit, according to audits
and appropriate data. Support the unit manager/Operational manager in the
coordination, organising and control over the activities, personnel, equipment, and
stores in the unit to utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Maintain professionalism and the display of core values of the Department
of Health WCG in the execution of duties, while practising within the legislation,
regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK de Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical. “Candidates who are not in possession of the required
qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to
obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in the post-basic qualification in: Medical & Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: Child with the South African Nursing Council.” The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
112
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/176 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least one year accredited with the SANC in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and
Emergency or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing: General.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public
holidays and weekends. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
effectively (both written and verbal). Ability to function independently, as well as in a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Knowledge of major incident
disaster plan. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of
Health Western Cape. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of Trauma and emergency centre. Skills to plan organise and the service by
analysing, problem, problem solving and decision making. Leadership towards the
realisation of strategic goals and objectives of Operating Theatre. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support staff with surgical
and medical procedures. Display of core values of the Department of Health &
Wellness in the WCH. Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing
needs, the planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
nursing personal as Professional Nurse in Trauma and emergency Centre. In the
execution of duties, while practising within the legislation, regulations and protocols
applicable to the public service. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical
standards and development of self and others. Utilise human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively
ENQUIRIES : E Smith Tel No: (021) 860 2839
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into the general
stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications within a
predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing:
Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care
Nursing: General. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The
pool of candidates will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Rural Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/177 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance and Supply Chain
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work after-hours when
113
required. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability
to meet needs and to recognise and respond to problematic matters. Good system
management and numerical skills. Advanced computer skills in MS Office and practical
workable knowledge of Logis, BAS, AR and Clinicom. Ability to work independently
and part of a team. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain an effective, efficient, and economic supply chain management
administration and service including the Warehouse. Manage efficient control of
revenue & expenditure in accordance with the approved institutional budget. Ensure
effective Asset Management of the Institution and Northern Tygerberg Sub Structure
PHC Facilities. Ensure efficiencies in Patient Administration Efficient and effective
management of components resources to achieve goals and objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Abrahams Tel No: (021) 834 5894
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : The pool of applicants will be considered other similar vacant posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/ written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/178 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION (EMPLOYEE
PRACTICES AND POLICIES)
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma/ Degree.
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience in people management. Appropriate
experience in personnel administration, employment practices and establishment
control. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good working knowledge and experience of
PERSAL and the relevant functions. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook and PERSAL). Ability to provide training. Good communication skills (verbal
and written). Sound knowledge of people management practices. Good interpersonal
and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and maintenance of policy documents/ circulars within
the Hospital as well as training in this regard. Monitor and manage all transversal
personnel practices such as ORW, E-disclosures and Incapacity management. Render
assistance with employment practices and conditions of service within the Hospital.
Conduct audit investigations and follow-up investigations and provide feedback on
Auditor General Enquiries/ Action Plans. Assist with grievances and dispute
resolutions with regards to personnel practices. Provide support in the processes
pertaining to OD Investigation and Job Evaluation processes and establishment
matters. Provide management support w.r.t the compilation and control of the
personnel budget in conjunction with the Directorate Finance experience of the
departmental APL process. Assist with the compilation of a HR Plan for the hospital
and all matters related to this.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Tshiki Tel No: (021) 938 6500
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/179 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (INFRASTRUCTURE
SOURCING)
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
Sub-directorate: Infrastructure Sourcing
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in procurement of built environment-related goods
and services by means of commodity-driven sourcing strategies, in particular.
Appropriate experience in executing procurement projects from needs analysis
through to contract management stage. Appropriate experience in procurement
processes prescribed by the Construction Industry Development Board. Appropriate
experience in local built environment industry, incl. cost drivers, supply and demand,
innovations, vendor landscape, etc.; and Human resource management. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) drivers license. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound management, report writing and analytical
114
skills and ability to assimilate detailed information. Commodity exposure across a
range of FM services, ie. plumbing, electrical, general building and mechanical
maintenance, HVAC, fabric repairs, etc. Demonstrate stakeholder engagement,
influencing skills. Financial and commercial awareness. Proven experience managing
complex projects. Ability to work under pressure and pay attention to detail and meet
deadlines. Computer literacy (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Rigorous expenditure
analysis and reporting skills. Human resource management.
DUTIES : Provide an integrated demand, acquisition and contract management service of
infrastructure goods and services commodities for the Department through the
development, implementation and maintenance of a transformative approach to
sourcing in the Department of Health with a focus on: Commodity-based lifecycle
costing: take ownership of spend management within your category through the design
and execution of innovative category management plans. End-to-end management of
the sourcing process: drive vendor performance management, vendor identification,
evaluation. Supplier relationship and performance management: ensure that high
standards of contractor performance are maintained. Internal stakeholder
management. Delivery of optimal commercial benefits to the Department. Human
resource management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Snell, email: Priscilla.Snell@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/180 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R515 785 per annum
CENTRE : New Beginning House, Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service, as required in
South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 21-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable health legislation,
relevant acts, policies and procedures. Understanding of evidence-based practice and
knowledge of a PSR model in a Mental health environment. Able to function as part of
a Multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide evidence-based Clinical Service within a Mental health setting in accordance
with prescribed requirements and protocols. Conduct assessments and implement
treatment plans within a transitional care unit. Independently conduct all administration
related to clinical service delivery. Ensure effective resource management. Overseeing
student training. Involvement in events and projects advocating for mental health
services. Ensure continued professional development by staying abreast with
developments within the profession.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Engelbrecht Tel No: (021)910 5369
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
115
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/181 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R514 785 per annum
CENTRE : Matzikama Sub-district: West Coast District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech
Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Speech Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Speech Therapist with
the HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel to and render services at
all fixed and satellite Clinics in the Sub-district Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal, planning and organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office).
Knowledge of applicable health legistration, relevant acts and policies. Ability to adapt
and work efficiently in a resource-constrained environment.
DUTIES : Clinical speech therapy services at health facility level. Training. Rendering of a
community-based speech therapy service. Admin duties – complete documentation of
all services rendered.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 2134070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time
for registration. Candidates will be subjected to both a practical/written and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/182 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree. Experience:
Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management Environment within a health
environment, that focuses on the Key Performance Areas of the Post, procurement of
goods and services, warehouse management and asset management. Appropriate
LOGIS and EPS experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word,
Excel, Outlook). Processing LOGIS payments.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management of all Supply Chain Management functions and
ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement policies and processes,
Demand, Acquisition, Contract, Logistics, Asset and Disposal Management. Inventory
control and warehouse management. System Management including ensuring system
controller functions and approver duties on EPS. Accurate and timeous preparation of
116
reports and assist with the compilation of the Annual and Interim Financial Statements.
Manage all people management-related functions within the component. Support
supervisor in executing the hospital’s strategic objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IR Slabbert Tel No: (044) 802-4347
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/183 : CHIEF FORENSIC OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Ability to lift and with work
corpses (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, etc.). Experience: Appropriate
extensive supervisory experience in a Forensic (Medico-legal) laboratory environment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in
person and in writing. Knowledge of the WCDoH&W systems and policies and that of
the SA Police and Criminal Justice system as it relates to medico-legal death
investigations. Sound knowledge and understanding of legislation pertaining to
Forensic Pathology Service and ethical issues in Forensic Pathology Service.
Competent in numerical assessment, planning, forecasting, and checking
(procurement, stores, claims, etc.). Ability to work under pressure, meet deadlines and
solve complex problems in a multi-disciplinary team. Will be required to assist in the
planning/training of major incident exercises as well as involvement in major incident
roles. Will be required to investigate and gather evidence for Pathologist (statements,
reports, hospital notes and folders). Will be required to work shift duties/office duties
and overtime duties. Above-average computer and software literacy in at least MS
Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Word.
DUTIES : Optimal control of reports, specimens and photographs during and after the Forensic
Mortuary process. An efficient support service to the Manager with regards to the
management of Forensic Pathology Laboratory. Effective supervision of subordinates.
Effective safekeeping and Disposal of Property of the Deceased and Exhibits. Effective
and efficient management of moneys received.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Carl Gordon Tel No: (021) 831-5893
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisting candidate’s
will be subjected to a practical test and may be subjected to a psychometric test.
Candidates will be subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/184 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCES
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma /Degree
in Human Resource related field. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license
(Code B/EB) and willingness to travel. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
supervisory capacity. Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, advanced Excel and
PowerPoint). Ability to function as a team player, with or without supervision. Ability to
function in a stressful environment and cope with a heavy workload. Leadership
capabilities managerial and organisation skills. Appropriate planning and
administration skills. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and
prescripts.
DUTIES : Monitoring control measures for all allowances. Ensure Audit Compliance. Financial
Management. Appropriate utilization of overtime budget. Management of Registry
services. Management of service benefits. Ensure efficient personnel administration
for leave management. Effective Management of incapacity, Pilir applications and
WCA. Ensure pension and audit compliance. Provide training, support and guidance
to staff and line managers within the scope of profile.Effective management and
development of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Acker Tel No: 021) 944-9202
117
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/185 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Facilities and Infrastructure Management
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or Degree
in a financial field. Experience: Appropriate experience in public sector financial
environment and relevant systems and on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of post.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (EB/B) driver’s license. Ability to travel and
work overtime if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
experience of working within the built environment sector. Excellent interpersonal skills
and the ability to interact with a broad range of users. Ability to work co-operatively with
colleagues and stakeholders at all levels and working independently. Advanced
computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Sound knowledge and experience in Supply
Chain Management processes. Sound knowledge of and experience of Basic
Accounting System (BAS). Ability to analyse information. Sound understanding of
accounting principles. Sound knowledge of the PFMA, National and Provincial
Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Extract relevant data from BAS and other relevant systems and evaluate financial and
SCM performance within the Chief Directorate. Manage Interim/Annual Financial
Statement reporting and A and L Accounts. Controlling of accounting entries and
reporting on erroneous transactions. Monitoring of transfer payments, conditional
grants and commitments. Manage the Supply Chain Function within the Chief
Directorate. Ensure compliance with Accounting Officer System and Supply Chain
Management Delegations. Assist with effective system implementation and Audit
processes. Effective and Efficient document control systems. Rendering effective
financial support and assistance to the Chief Directorate. Extensive experience in
extracting information/reports from BAS and Vulindlela for analysis. Detection and
correction of incorrect accounting entries, authorise payments/journals and ensure
compliance. Application of accrual accounting principles to the extent required by
accounting statements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T September Tel No: (021)483-0890
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/186 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National diploma or degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Switchboard, Printing, Clerical Support, Medico
Legal, Admin Registry. Inherent requirement of the job: Perform relief and standby
duties availability after-hours, when necessary Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Organisational, and leadership skills, strong people management and supervisory
skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft Package). Ability to work co-operatively with
colleagues and stakeholders at all levels and working independently. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Optimum utilisation and supervision of human and other resources within Support
Services. Promote and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered
by the Support Service components (Switchboard/, Printing/, Clerical Support/, Medico
Legal/ Admin Registry). Oversee the management of Residences and halls. Effective
support to the ASD in the management of Human Resources in the component. Ensure
timeous submission of statistical data, as well as collate and compile databases,
rosters and monthly reports. Ensure timeous submission of statistical data, as well as
collate and compile databases, rosters and monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Pass Tel No: (021) 404 6126
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
118
POST 11/187 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : R376 413 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in Human
Resource Administration. Experience of the PERSAL System. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid code EB/B driver's license. Ability to work overtime if needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant Legislation. Working
knowledge of all aspects regarding Human Resources. Good interpersonal and conflict
resolution skills. Ability to function independently and within a team context.
Leadership, organization, creative problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL). Be able to
work accurate at a fast pace and under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordinate, implement and monitor the relevant policies, procedures, prescripts with
regard to personnel, salary, pension, leave and administration in general as applicable
in a staff office. Management of PERSAL functions. Ensure efficient and effective
quality and risk management in HR, including audit compliance, databases and
reports. Interpret and implement policies, regulations and procedures and provide an
effective and efficient assistance and support to clients, personnel, management and
supervisors. Manage and supervise of the general staff office with a very high
workload, which are responsible for all personnel and related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs EM Koopman Tel No: (023) 348 1102
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/188 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A TO B (ELECTRICAL)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : R362 130 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Electrical Trade Test Certificate –
Heavy current. Experience: 5 years’ appropriate experience as an Artisan after
obtaining the trade test certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB
driver’s license. Physically fit to perform duties. Work overtime should the need arise,
day or night and perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant
with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. (Act
85) Ability to fault-find and repair down to component level. Competent with hands-on
practical work. Proven supervisory experience.
DUTIES : Control over equipment, tools, plant and materials and provide in service training to
subordinates. General maintenance and repair of electrical items and equipment.
Manage the control of tools, equipment and stock Ability to maintain mechanical and
electrical installations. Assist with emergency breakdowns after hours. Effective
supervision and training of subordinates. The ability to perform basic administrative
duties and record-keeping. Do quality assurance on all maintenance and repair work
performed, keep registers of all work done and maintain control of job cards. Compile
and submit reports as required and provide input on the operational plan of the
workshop. Assist the Chief Artisan in ordering, procurement and control of
maintenance material and equipment. Assist with the executing of engineering projects
and manage all maintenance of plant and equipment in Hospital and service area.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Abrahams or Gregory.Abrahams@westerncape.gov.za Tel No: (021) 860 2797
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will have to complete a practical test as part of the interview process
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/189 : CANDIDATE SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (FORENSIC TOXICOLOGY)
SALARY : R321 087 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Science or relevant
qualification. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SACNASP as
119
a Certificated Natural Scientist in training is compulsory upon appointment.
Experience: No previous experience required. Inherent requirement of the job:
Proficiency in scientific software and computer literacy. Basic laboratory skills,
including biological sample preparation and equipment handling. Knowledge of safety
protocols and compliance with laboratory standards. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Chromatography and mass spectrometry. Good laboratory practice (GLP) protocols.
ISO 17025 standards of practice. Biological sample handling and sample preparation.
Analytical chemistry principles. Data analysis and interpretation techniques. Legal
compliance and regulatory standards. Research and scientific methodologies.
Technical report writing and presentation skills. Accurate data collection and analysis.
Effective problem solving and troubleshooting. Critical thinking and decision making.
DUTIES : Assist in the implementation of methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Assist in development of databases, data management and subsequent analysis.
Assist with research and development. Provide quality and technical support and
recommendations/ advice. Assist with administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Bronwen Davies: Bronwen.davies@uct.ac.za / Tel No: (021) 406 6026.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application to register with the relevant council and poof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar posts within the Department for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/190 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R308 154 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital, Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics
and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the
post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance, Supply Chain Management and
Transport. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to work overtime. Willingness to travel within the Sub-structure.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation governing
transport, finance and SCM. PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations and
the Accounting Officer System for the Department of Health including delegations.
Sound knowledge of transport and supply chain management processes. Good
computer skills (MS Office, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Manage the transport component of the NTSS. Asist with SCM and contract
management functions relating to security matters and Monitoring & Evaluation.
Ensure all functions are executed with the parameters of the governing legislation.
Management of systems used to execute transport, finance and Supply Chain
Management functions. Reports on transport and Supply Chain Management are
submitted timeously on a regular basis. Supervision of staff, training of staff, and
disciplinary matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Nober Tel No: (021) 815-8856
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Shortlisted Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/191 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (PROCUREMENT
& ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R308 154 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital, Bellville
120
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics
and/or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the
post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management in a buying
capacity. Appropriate experience in procurement of goods and services, procurement
processes and systems. Relevant experience of using the Electronic Procurement
System (ePS) quotation tool, ESL, SEB, CSD, AVP and Logis. Appropriate experience
in the Procurement Planning Management Toolkit. Appropriate supervisory experience
in a Supply Chain Management and Asset Management environment. Appropriate
experience in procurement processes relating to reviewing and approving SCM
processes. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills in the MS Office
package. Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team. Sound
knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial
Treasury Regulations, Accounting Officer System of the Department of Health and
Wellness, Supply Chain Management delegations and instructions and other
applicable policies. Sound theoretical knowledge of Supply Chain Management and
Asset Management.
DUTIES : Procurement of Goods and Services whilst applying all relevant SCM prescripts and
policies. Ensure Asset Management Unit account for all assets and ensure compliance
in terms of barcoding, verification, scanning, reconciliation, and reporting of assets for
the Northern Tygerberg Sub Structure. Supervise the overall and individual
performance and develop staff within Supply Chain Management: Procurement and
Asset Management. Assist supervisor with compilation of IFS/AFS and other monthly
reporting. Manage all queries pertaining to procurement of goods and services and
assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J Davids Tel No: (021) 834 5893
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants
will be considered other similar vacant posts within the Chief Director: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of advert. Candidates will be subjected
to a practical/ written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/192 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R308 154 per annum
CENTRE : Services Priorities Co-ordination, Communicable Diseases Control (CDC) Unit
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration pertaining to the health
environment. Appropriate experience in data management. Appropriate experience in
surveillance systems. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when required. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of the health environment
and stakeholders. Computer literate (MS Word and MS Excel). Ability to work under
pressure and to meet deadlines. Knowledge of the health environment and
surveillance systems.
DUTIES : Optimal provision of administrative and technical support to the unit. -Timeous and
correct capturing of programme/surveillance/ outbreak/research data; extraction;
collation and management of data according to set targets/ deadlines and ensure high
quality and accuracy of data. Ensure the effective flow of information and documents
to and from the unit to the National Department of Health, National Institute for
Communicable Diseases, districts, sub-districts and local authorities. -Filing / record-
keeping / archiving of documentation (notification forms, case investigation forms etc.)
for the unit. Submission of accurate professional operational and automated reports
and minutes of meetings. Professional telephone call-management and networking
with stakeholders; maintenance of the CDC stakeholder contact list and relevant
information for all projects; and effective asset management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Lawrence Tel No: (021) 830 - 3727
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
121
POST 11/193 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE ADMIN (ADMISSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R308 154 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate supervisory experience Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
perform overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
in Microsoft package (Word, Excel and Outlook). Knowledge and practical experience
of Clinicom system. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, email)
relevant knowledge, skills, and experience in processes, procedures, prescripts and
legislative framework. Knowledge of Chapter 18 Fees Manual & Finance Instructions,
UPFS Manual, Medical Schemes Act 131 OF 1998 as amended, Hospital Information
Systems, ICD10 Coding, EDI Process etc. Knowledge an Ability to analyse and provide
solutions to problems. Good interpersonal and organizational skills.
DUTIES : Support the management in executing the hospital’s strategic objectives. Render and
effective and efficient patient administration. Administrative support to staff,
management & other departments. Compiling of statistics. Overall management of
medical records. Supervisory functions pertaining to the Admissions and Record
Management sections as well as planning, training and monitoring of staff, SPMS, and
other HR-related duties. Attending meetings/ forums and being able to give feedback
to staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Dyini Tel No: (021) 799 1290 / Dyini.Chwayita@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/194 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: GENERAL FEMALE)
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R307 473 per annum
Grade 2: R375 480 per annum
Grade 3: R451 533 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness
to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and weekends. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function
independantly, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care
Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan (clinical
practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for
quality nursing (quality of practice) Practice nursing and health care in accordance with
the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain constructive
working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and
physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons or anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za Tel No: (021) 860 2504
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Rural
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
122
POST 11/195 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC): GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R250 947 per annum
Grade 2: R290 436 per annum
Grade 3: R313 308 per annum
CENTRE : Morning Star CDC (X1 Post)
Symphony Way CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification
that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic),
(Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post- Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic), (Institutional).
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate within the Substructure when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer literacy. Ability to work as
part of a team or independently. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist with issuing of pharmaceutical products and ensure quality provision of
Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation. Working under direct
supervision of a pharmacist. Assistant with the control of stock by managing the safe
and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality pharmaceuticals.
Assist with the support of chronic medication delivery. Assistant with the packing of
pharmaceuticals products. Assistant with the control and distribution finished
pharmacy products. Assist with the collation and organising of information for research
purposes and any reasonable job-related requests within the scope of practice of the
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Rose-Benjamin Tel No: (021) 829 8330 for Morning Star CDC
Ms. G Naude Tel No: (021) 204 9400 for Symphony Way CDC
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for these posts. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview.” This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”. -Pharmacist
Assistants who do not comply with registration in the advertised category may apply
on condition that registration in the required category is obtained within 12 months.
The appointment will be subject to a 12-month probationary period. Should the
employee not meet the conditions of their appointment within the agreed timeframes,
the probationary period may be extended, or the employee may be dismissed. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/196 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (DENTAL PATIENT ADMINISTRATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of patient administration. Appropriate Clinicom experience.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience in Clinicom and
Accounts Receivable Systems, UPFS manual, Hospital Memorandum Chapter 18,
PFMA (Public Finance Management Act) and BAS. Ability to understand and
communicate effectively. Good interpersonal skills, the ability to maintain
confidentiality and excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Computer
literacy in MS Office package.
DUTIES : Ensure accurate assessment of patients according to the means test and billing of
patient accounts, raising and releasing of invoices and debiting of charge entries to
invoices as per UPFS manual, Clinicom and Hospital Memorandum 18. Registration
of new patients. Telephone enquiries. Filing and drawing of folders. Any ad-hoc admin
duties.
123
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Paulsen Tel No: (021) 937-3047
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/197 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (NURSING)
Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Administrative experience in a healthcare environment. NIMS
experience in a healthcare environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. Excellent typing skills, minute and Computer
literacy in MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook Access). Knowledge of
Teams and OneDrive would also be to your advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient office administration and management within the
Nursing Management Office. Deliver and effective and efficient office administration,
reception and support to the Nurse Manager and affiliated managers and support
services. Record engagements of senior management & arrange and management of
meetings. Manage and maintain an effective and efficient Nursing data filing,
recordkeeping services, which includes provision of accurate/ effective typing and data
capturing of human resource documentation, nursing agency sheets, attendance of
agency bookings and incident reports. Coordinate and assist with the preparation and
processes of interviews, meetings and new nursing staff appointments in the
department. Provide administrative support to nursing personnel, assist with queries
and ensure effective and efficient communication. General administration duties,
arranging of quarterly meetings. typing of quarterly reports, complete monthly and
quarterly statistics. Provide administrative support to Nursing management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 or Anthea.Solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/198 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate administrative experience in the health environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime when required. Ability to work
day and night shifts, weekends and public holidays when required. Willingness to rotate
in different departments within the Nursing Component. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, Outlook). Ability to work in
a team, work under pressure and provide excellent customer care. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin processes according to DOH procedures for health information
on Clinicom (Admissions, discharges, Transfer, Appointments, Death, ICD 10 coding).
Manage all resources according to SCM procedures (Consumables and Assets).
Provide support to multidisciplinary teams and wards (typing, filing, faxing and
photocopying, email, statistics). Submit daily, weekly, and monthly statistics and
reports and capture data. Perform administrative duties (arrange and attend meetings
and take minutes).
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902-8057
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of the advert. Candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
124
POST 11/199 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (FINANCE/ADMIN: CASHIER)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with mathematics
and/or accountancy as a passed subject and/or a Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the
post. Experience: Appropriate cashier experience in the public sector. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook), attach
proof or mention in CV. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work
independently and unsupervised. Appropriate knowledge in the handling of cash
management and to prepare and analyse figures and amounts. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Appropriate knowledge of the Basic Accounting System
(BAS) and Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations and
Instructions.
DUTIES : Receiving and depositing of money. Doing the correct allocations on BAS and
Clinicom, issue receipts, capture day end for deposits and deposit confirmations. File
and safekeeping of documents. Clear matching reports (journals) and daily allocations
to other Hospitals. Assist with monthly BAS/Clinicom reconciliation. Handling of all
cashier-related enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs C Roman Tel No: (044) 302 7264
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/200 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) qualification.
Experience: Appropriate typing experience. Appropriate Clinical administration
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to type more than 60 words per
minute. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Above-average ability to communicate
clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Ability to work under pressure.
Dictaphone typing. Ability to collate and verify data accurately. -Good interpersonal
and organizational skills. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Ability to accurately and
effectively enter numerical data using the ten keys on a keyboard's numeric pad,
including the decimal point and mathematical operators. Proficiency in Microsoft Office.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient typing of post-mortem reports. Effective and efficient
administrative support to the Division: Forensic Pathology Service. Effective and
efficient management of Forensic databases. Effective management of Forensic
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs SD Williams Tel No: (021) 836 0963
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical test. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
security clearance prior to appointment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/201 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (FINANCE/ ADMIN)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Ladismith Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics
and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the
post. Experience: Appropriate practical experience in a Hospital Fees and/or Patient
Administration related environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Willingness to work after hours when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to meet and to recognize and respond to
problematic matters. Good system management skills (Clinicom, AR, BAS and JAC).
Advanced computer skills in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
125
DUTIES : Assist with Hospital Fees, Patient Administration and Medical Records Division,
Release of Journals on BAS, Deposit Day Ends, and Deposit Confirmation of Monies
Banked, Clinicom transactions and Accounts Receivable transactions. Submit Monthly
Reports to District Office and Head Office on Hospital Fees/Revenue-related
transactions with regard to in Year Monitoring, Revenue Action Plan, Billing and BAS
Recon. Effectively Generate income, the management thereof and regular follow-ups.
Render administrative Support to the division and Public.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mars Tel No: (044) 203 - 7204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/202 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross Childrens War Memorial Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience Human Resources (i.e., Salary Administration, Service
Conditions, Personnel Management, Exit Management and Recruitment and
Selection). Appropriate PERSAL experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Human Resource legislation and policies. Ability to function effectively
within a team environment with or without supervision. Ability to function effectively in
a stressful environment with a heavy workload. Computer skills (i.e., MS Outlook, MS
Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint and PERSAL). Aptitude for working with figures
DUTIES : Perform all Human Resource related functions within the HRM unit in conjunction with
the AO: HRM. Processing of appointments, service terminations, PILIR, RWOEE,
WCA and general service conditions, auditing of leave and personnel files, debt
management, management of pay sheets and commuted overtime. Salary
administration (i.e. salary determination, overtime, periodical and sessional payments)
Assist with all telephonic and written queries related to People Management. Assist
with Recruitment and Selection. Grading, OSD and non-OSD
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Share Tel No: (021) 658-5476
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/203 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (MEDICAL & ANCILIARY) (FUNCTIONAL
BUSINESS UNIT: PAEDIATRICS)
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate administrative experience in a health/patient environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime and relief in other departments as
operational required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
Good computer (MS Word, Excel, Outlook) and numeracy skills. Knowledge of
Clinicom and Logis. Ability to maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Perform patient administration and financial duties: completion of patient
documentation (Clinicom) and filing of documents in accordance with the filing system
of the Department. Perform general administration duties, e.g. record keeping of all
medical & nursing personnel activities, typing, telephone duties and photocopying.
Managing and ordering of stock on LOGIS and assist with assets. Deliver an effective
admin support service to all members of the multi-disciplinary team
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Camp Tel No: (023) 348 1100 / Sr C Pieterse Tel No: (023) 348 1443
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
126
POST 11/204 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R209 112 per annum
Grade 2: R248 613 per annum
Grade 3: R290 805 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse.
Inherent requirement of the job: To work shifts and after-hours including weekends,
public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment. Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection Prevention Control, control
measures and practices. Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms. Basic
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide implementation of the nursing plan (clinical practice or quality patient care)
under direct/indirect supervision of a Professional Nurse. Provide basic clinical nursing
care. Practice nursing in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing.
Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-development. Utilise human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404 2109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview.” This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)” The pool of
candidates will be considered for similar vacant posts within Groote Schuur Hospital
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/205 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R209 112 per annum
Grade 2: R248 613 per annum
Grade 3: R290 805 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
KESS Mental PHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with
the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work overtime, shifts and do night duties. Willingness to rotate within
the Sub Structure as per operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Basic communication skills (both written and verbal). Ability to function as part of a
team. Good human relations. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and
safe standard.
DUTIES : Develop and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic clinical nursing
care. Effective health promotion and information to patient/client and community.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Gaji-Mbunge Tel No: (021) 360 5200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
127
first time for registration with the SANC (including individuals who must apply for
change of registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months
from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/206 : FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R183 279 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 9 (Std. 7) / General Education and Training
Certificate (GETC). Experience: Appropriate hospital catering and food service
experience. minimum 3 years. Experience supervising an industrial catering service.
Experience in the preparation of breast milk supplementation in a sterile milk room
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Dress according to departmental
specifications. Work a 10—hour day shift and weekend duties (1 in 2). Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Familiar with Excell software. Previous positive leadership
experience in Food Service. Understanding of the PGWC Food Service Policy and
monitoring process. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act and Occupational Health
and Safety Act. Knowledge and/or experience of safe preparation of breast – milk
substitutes in sterile milk room environment.
DUTIES : Supervision of FSA’s in the correct receiving, storage, preparation, cooking and
distribution of all types meals including meals for children, parents, special diets and
external clients daily. Supervise the cleaning and the maintenance of the kitchen area
and equipment and adhere to occupational safety standards. Assist with Human and
Financial Resource Management (Responsible for subordinates quarterly SPMS
reporting, training allocation, leave, discipline and also stock control of the kitchen).
Preparation of breast milk substitutes in sterile environment using safety guidelines in
the sterile environment. Communicate with Food Service Manager/Dietitian and
feedback on any problems or recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Coetzee Tel No: (021) 658-5407
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : It will be expected from shortlisted candidates to complete a practical test. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/207 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R165 177 per annum
Grade 2: R192 675 per annum
Grade 3: R227 070 per annum
CENTRE : Elsies River CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC as a
Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts, public holidays, night duty,
after-hours and weekends. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills and ability to communicate (written and verbal). Ability to
work in a multi-disciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation of
SOP’s, policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily living
which includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility and elimination
processes. Monitor patient vital signs and report any abnormal findings. Reporting on
patient safety and adverse incidents. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively participating in
in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Heunis Tel No: (021) 931-0211
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. Candidates who are not
128
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Nursing Assistant within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/208 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R165 177 per annum
Grade 2: R192 675 per annum
Grade 3: R277 070 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Community Health Centre
Michael Mapongwana Community Day Centre
Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure Office
Nolungile Community Day Centre
Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as a Nursing Assistant with SANC. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Nursing
Assistant with SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when necessary. Will be required to work shifts, public holidays, night duty, after hours
and weekends. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to operational
needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work
in the multi-disciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation of
SOP’s, policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily living
which includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility, and elimination
processes. Monitor patient vital signs and report any abnormal findings. Reporting on
patient safety and adverse incidents. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively participating in
in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Gaji-Mbunge Tel No: (021) 360-5200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. No
payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Nursing Assistant within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/209 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (WARD 10)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R165 177 per annum
Grade 2: R192 675 per annum
Grade 3: R277 070 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable
129
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of nursing care and procedures, nursing
statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks. Must have good communication skills.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living. To observe patients’ behaviour and actions
in wards and in seclusion and provide elementary clinical nursing care. Maintain
documentation and communication. Effective utilization of resources Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively participating in
in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fredericks Tel No: (021) 940-4416
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/210 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R165 177 per annum
Grade 2: R192 675 per annum
Grade 3: R277 070 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows for registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience after registration with the SANC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to work shifts, night
duty, public holidays, after-hours, and weekend cover for nursing. Must be prepared to
assist in all departments according to operational needs. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication, planning and interpersonal skills. Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability to work in a multidisciplinary team-
context. Enhance patient care through the implementation of SOP’s, policies and
guidelines.
DUTIES : Monitor patients’ vital signs and report any abnormal findings. Provide bed- and
pressure care to patients. Actively participating in in-service training interventions.
Reporting on patient safety and adverse incidents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860 2504 or anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed
into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration
in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/211 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R165 177 per annum
Grade 2: R192 675 per annum
130
Grade 3: R227 070 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20’ years appropriate/recognisable
nursing experience after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours, night
duty and weekend cover for nursing. Willing to work overtime when needed.
Willingness to rotate to other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and insight into protocols and policies pertaining to nursing practices in a
hospital setting. Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control standards.
DUTIES : Assist patient with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary clinical
nursing care- checking of vital signs, operate all relevant apparatus and equipment.
Assist professional nurses with clinical procedures and prepare patient for diagnostic
and surgical procedures. Effective record keeping of Nursing notes on patient folder
and adhere to Infection Prevention Control practices. Advocate and ensure the
promotion of nursing ethos and professionalism and maintain professional growth,
ethical standards, and self- development. Provide basic education according to
individual needs of patients and family upon discharge of the patient.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ncumani Tel No: (021) 360 4314
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant Nursing Assistant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/212 : DRIVER (HEAVY DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R155 148 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate driving experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code C (Code
10) manual driver’s license. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work
overtime, perform standby duties after hours, including weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to accept accountability, responsibility to work
independently, good interpersonal skills and sober habits. Knowledge of Transport
Regulations and Circular no 4 of 2000. Knowledge of routine, maintenance,
Inspections for defects on vehicles and safe driving skills. Ability to work amongst
people with disabilities/special mental healthcare needs.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and effective transport service for Lentegeur Hospital, including
transport of clients, personnel, goods and services. Ensure routine Maintenance,
inspecting of vehicles and timely reporting of defects. Ensure an effective daily
Transport Administration and support to Supervisor. Ensure vehicles are kept clean,
tidy and roadworthy condition. Ensure correct collection and delivery of bloods and
specimens.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AS Brandt Tel No: (021) 830 2704
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to practical/written and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/213 : SEAMSTRESS
SALARY : R155 148 per annum
131
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ grade 9 (Std 7). Inherent requirements of the job: To work overtime including
weekends and Public Holidays. Experience: Appropriate experience in the operating
of a sewing and overlocker machine. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work
under pressure and perform physically demanding tasks. Ability to achieve and
maintaining good interpersonal relations with staff and the service provider. Knowledge
of and the ability to interpret the Western Cape Linen Management Policy. Knowledge
of mending of torn or damaged hospital linen and knowledge of fabrics and fibers.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient manufacturing of hospital textile garments. Effective and efficient
recycling of linen/garment/clothing items through mending, alteration and reproducing.
Recording of linen and sewing related items. Effective stock and quality control of the
sewing items as well as efficient storage, issuing and receipt of clean linen and other
related items. Handling of soiled, infectious, infested and condemned linen. To perform
relief duties within the hospital linen management department and filing duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P. Gudwana Tel No: (021) 404-5315
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/214 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R155 148 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime, shifts including nightshift,
weekends and on public holidays. Must be prepared to handle corpses. Must be of
sober habits. Experience: Appropriate porter experience in a hospital/health
environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Willing to work in a team. Ability
to perform tasks such as lifting patients from/onto beds trolleys and wheelchairs.
DUTIES : Accompany/assist and transport of patients via beds/trolley/wheelchairs between
treatment areas. Assist with the loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicles.
Carry medical and other documentation (patient files, reports, etc.) to wards/ treatment
areas. Check, report and replace gas cylinders in wards/treatment areas and assist
with shifting of medical equipment to and from rooms. Responsible for the maintenance
of trolleys and wheelchairs (this includes cleaning and repairs). Assist with the
transportation of corpses from wards and complete mortuary registers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Gonya Tel No: (021) 360-4412
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant Porter post within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/215 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in linen bank in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime; e.g. after- working hours, weekends and public holidays
when operational needs require. Physically fit and be able to hear and speak clearly.
Perform hard physical tasks, e.g. pushing heavy linen trolleys to and from the linenbank
and wards. Prepared to relieve in other sections of Support services Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Perform basic routine tasks in the linen bank under supervision.
Perform hard physical tasks, e.g. pushing heavy linen trolleys to and from the linenbank
and wards. Ability to sort, sluice and count linen of dirty and fouled linen. Knowledge
of stock and infection control.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness, hygienic and safe environment. Provide a
supporting service to the supervisor. Daily collection of dirty, fouled and infected linen
(in bags) from wards to the linenbank. Delivering of clean linen to the wards. Daily
sorting, counting and sluicing of dirty linen prior to transfer of linen to Central Laundry.
Daily issuing, unpacking and checking of clean linen.
132
ENQUIRIES : Ms GP Storm Tel No: (021) 860-2844
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/216 : CLEANER
Overberg District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Barrydale CC, Swellendam Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a Health Environment. Appropriate experience with the use of cleaning
equipment, cleaning materials and cleaning detergents. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to rotate to other clinics. Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and
supplies. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations and
organisational skills. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : General cleaning and maintenance of cleaning equipment. Dust, sweep, polish, scrub
and mop floors, passages furniture, emptying of dustbins and sorting of soiled linen
according to correct cleaning procedures. Effective use of cleaning agents and stock.
Responsible for general hygiene and safe environment. Handle cleaning equipment.
Handle elementary stock control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/217 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Sub District PHC (Stationed at Beaufort West Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the transportation of personnel and goods. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code C driver’s license. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP).
Willingness to work overtime and perform standby duties when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to accept accountability, responsibility to work
independently and good interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Transport Regulations and
Circular no 4 of 2000. Knowledge of routine, maintenance, Inspections for defects on
vehicles and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Transport goods, services, clients and personnel from one point to another. Ensure
accurate and detailed completion of logbooks. Conduct routine maintenance,
inspecting on vehicles and timely reporting of defects. Adhere to Departmental codes
and procedures. Ensure that all vehicles are kept clean and tidy. Perform
administrative and relieve duties when required or necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Hansen Tel No: (023) 414 - 8202
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/218 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Western Cape Health Warehouse
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience:
Appropriate experience on transportation of passengers and goods in a health
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Valid
Public Driving Permit (PDP). Work overtime as per needs requirement and perform
standby duties, after hours, including weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Transport Circular of 2000. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised. Good
133
knowledge of road network in the Peninsula. Relief staff within the component when
required. Safe driving skills. Must be of sober habits.
DUTIES : Daily transporting of official passengers, post, packages, goods and equipment as well
as completion of Logbooks. Conduct routine maintenance, inspection of vehicles and
timeously reporting of defects. Adhere to departmental codes and procedures. Perform
routine administrative duties when required and respond to emergencies when
necessary. Ensure that all vehicles are kept clean and tidy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Stuurman on Cameron.Stuurman@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/219 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a household/cleaning environment in a health facility.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work weekends, overtime, public
holidays and night duty. The ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy duty
cleaning and household equipment. Willingness to rotate in wards according to the
needs of the service. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge of cleaning
of equipment. Support to housekeeping supervisor and adhere to policies and cleaning
practices. Appropriate knowledge of stock, assets, linen and equipment control.
DUTIES : Deliver an effective cleaning service such as dusting, washing, scrubbing, polishing,
washing and refuse removal. Adhere to safety measures and ensure adherence to
Occupational Health and Safety policies and Infection Prevention Control measures.
Render assistance to the supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control
of cleaning and household equipment, care and control of linen and serving of meals
to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604 - 6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Mossel Bay Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/220 : GENERAL WORKER (STORES ASSISTANT) (SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a warehouse environment. Appropriate experience in
receiving and distribution of stock. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s
license (Code B/EB). Physical ability to lift heavy boxes. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Load and offload stock on the vans. Transport goods to and from different sections.
Pack stock in boxes according to standards. Receipt of stock from bulk store. Prepare
stock for courier distribution. Prepare stock for collection by demanders. Maintain
hygiene in the area.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs A Rein Tel No: 044) 302 - 8468
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Knysna/Bitou Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/221 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Laingsburg Hospital
134
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience: Appropriate
experience in preparing patient meals in hospitals will be to your advantage. Inherent
requirement of the job: Physically strong to lift heavy objects and be on their feet the
entire day. Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self- disciplined, motivated, sober
habits, willingness to develop skills and undergo training. Ability to read, write and
interpret recipes to prepare the meals to be served and be able to use an electronic
kitchen scale. Appropriate knowledge of basic cleaning and maintenance of equipment
used in the Food Service Unit.
DUTIES : Provision of food services, including pre-preparation & preparation of normal and
special diets as well as dishing up and distribution of the meals. Assist with the
receiving and storage of perishables and groceries. Implement & Control hygienic
environment according to occupational health and safety prescripts including infection
control. Maintenance of appliances and equipment. Assist with human resources
development program for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Bothma Tel No: (023) 814-2024
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/222 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office (Stationed at Mossel Bay Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in transportation of personnel and goods in health environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid code (C1/EC) (Code 8) driver’s license. Valid Public
Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work overtime and to perform standby duties.
Ability to handle heavy objects. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
Communication skills. Appropriate knowledge of routine, maintenance, Inspections for
defects on vehicles and safe driving skills. Ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Daily transporting of official passengers, post, packages, medication, goods and
equipment as well as completion of logbooks. Deliver and collect blood products and
carry medical and other documentation (patient files, reports, etc) to wards/treatment
and other admin areas. Conduct routine maintenance and cleaning of Government
vehicles and conduct routine inspection of vehicles and report defects. Assist with
loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicles, to and from, beds, trolleys or
wheelchairs and vice versa. Assist with the transportation of corpses from wards to the
mortuary and entering details in the mortuary register. Relief staff within the Support
Service component when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Coetzee Tel No: (044) 604 – 6110
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Mossel Bay Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/223 : FOOD SERVICE AID
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R131 265 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a large-scale food service unit, which includes the operating
of large-scale kitchen equipment as well as the preparation of normal and therapeutic
diets. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy-
duty kitchen and cleaning equipment. Excellent health status – be able to work with
cleaning materials, do high-dusting and lifting of heavy equipment and supplies. Ability
to be on your feet for a period of 12 hours per day. Ability to work shifts during the day,
weekends, public holidays and overtime if requested Competencies (knowledge/skills):
The ability to prepare meals according to standardised recipes, as well as safely and
correctly handle industrial equipment. Basic knowledge of the food service hygiene
and safety principles. Conflict management.
135
DUTIES : Perform all tasks emanating from the pre-preparation and production of all full and
therapeutic diets. Perform all tasks emanating from the dishing, distribution and serving
of food to patients at various wards. Clean and maintain all areas, utensils and
equipment in the food service unit and maintain safety and hygiene standards. Assist
with the receipt, safe storage and issuing of food provisions and other products. Assist
with the informal in-service training of new employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs H Botha Tel No: (023) 348-1222
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/224 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS) (SESSIONAL) (20
SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
Contract until 31 March 2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R612 per hour
Grade 2: R698 per hour
Grade 3: R809 per hour
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital, Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
in Paediatrics. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist
in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent
requirements of the job: Medical Specialist will be expected to do clinical work as per
work schedule in the in or outpatient department. (20 sessions per week) Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Must be flexible to accommodate changes in the schedule and
willing to perform outreach. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate experience in providing Paediatrics and neonatal services. Excellent
clinical expertise and clinical governance. Excellent skills in teaching and training of
undergraduate students, medical interns and medical officers. Good leadership,
communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Clinical services- Provide a clinical service to in- and outpatients Clinical care
coordination - Coordinate, plan and ensure adherence to and promotion of good clinical
care outcomes for paediatric and neonatal patients. Clinical service administration-
Assist with related clinical administrative tasks. Teaching and Training of
undergraduate students, interns and medical officers in clinical areas.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C. Geldenhuys Tel No: (021) 918-1204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). Candidates
will be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered
for other Medical Specialists in Paediatrics posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/225 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC: HAEMATOLOGY/ONCOLOGY)
(12 SESSIONS)
(12-Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R457 per hour
136
Grade 2: R521 per hour
Grade 3: R603 per hour
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner
with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner
with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Applicants must have a valid APLS/
PALS certificate. Applicants must be willing to work morning shifts (8am to 12pm / 9am
to 1pm) as required. Applicants must be willing to be flexible with workdays based on
service requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a
professional team. Appropriate post-internship experience in general paediatrics under
onsite supervision of a registered paediatrician. Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their families. Ability to provide a
comprehensive paediatric service to Haematology/Oncology patients. Excellent report,
clinical note and referral writing skills. Experience with teamwork, planning, organizing
and coordination. Excellent interpersonal, administrative, communication, analytical
and problem-solving skills. Display empathy for patients, promote advocacy and
facilitate holistic treatment. Good time management.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families. Mentor junior
medical staff to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes. Interaction with (and
supervision of where necessary) nursing staff, allied professionals, and students.
Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the course of clinical work. Effective and
efficient administration of clinical services. Clinical leadership in the workplace.
Improve professional competence by regular self-learning and reflection with the
application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Alan Davidson Tel No: (021) 658-5185 or Email: alan.davidson@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/226 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY)
(SESSIONAL) (20 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R457 per hour
Grade 2: R521 per hour
Grade 3: R603 per hour
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Practitioner with
the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform
137
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines
and related prescript to manage resources effectively.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a patient
centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester healthcare
ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high quality clinical records.
Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr E Manefeldt Tel No: (023) 348-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
POST 11/227 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GENERAL - PHC) (24 SESSIONS)
(1 Year Contract)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R208 per hour
Grade 2: R248 per hour
Grade 3: R248 per hour
CENTRE : Ladismith CDC and Vanwyksdorp Satelite Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. -
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work in all Primary Health Care
facilities e.g. Community Day Centers, Clinics, Satellite clinics and on Mobile Clinics.
A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willing to drive a government vehicle. Willing
to work overtime when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Planning and
organisational Skills. Self- discipline and motivation. The ability to function
independently under pressure. Good communication skills. -Ability to work in a team
across the service platforms.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality comprehensive
nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain ethical practise within
legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive working relationship with all
relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care team. Utilize human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in training programmes and
research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Labuschagne Tel No: (028) 551 -1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
138
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates
may be requested to undertake practical test. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirement, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 April 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/228 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI
26/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 042 170 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-Degree in Quantity Survey or relevant qualification; A minimum of 6
years post qualification experience; Compulsory registration with South African Council
of Quantity Surveying Professionals (SACQSP) as a professional Quantity Surveyor;
A valid code B driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Contract
documentation and administration, act/regulations of Occupation Health and Safety
(OHS-Act), National Building Regulations, SANS and all relevant built environment
legislation; Programme/project management, research and planning procedures;
Financial management; Formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional
environment; Leadership, communication, organising and teamwork; Verbal and
written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines;
Conflict management; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Quantity Surveying analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals or
audits on quantity survey procedures; Coordinate quantity surveying efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology;
Maintain quantity survey operational effectiveness: Manage the execution of quantity
surveying strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and
resources; Set quantity survey standards, specifications and service levels according
to organisational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability; Monitor quantity
survey efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect quantity
surveying services for the attainment of organisational objectives; Financial
Management: Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the quantity surveying environment/services; Manage the following:
The operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organisational needs and objectives; Commercial added value of the
discipline-related programmes and projects; Facilitate the compilation of Innovation
proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational principles; Allocate,
monitor and control expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cashflow
management; Governance: Allocate, monitor and control resources; Compile risk
logs(database) and manage significant risk according to sound risk management
practise and organisational requirements provide technical specialist services for the
operation of quantity surveying related matters to minimise possible risks: Manage and
implement knowledge sharing initiatives in support of individual development plans,
139
operational requirements and return on investment; Continuously monitor the
exchange and protection of information between operations and individuals to ensure
effective knowledge management according to departmental objectives. People
Management: Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human resources
for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
quantity surveying services according to organisational needs and requirements
manage subordinate’s key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Jodie Thomas at Jodie.Thomas@westerncape.gov.za.
POST 11/229 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION LEVEL): HEALTH AND EDUCATION
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO. DOI 27/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R721 476 - R774 267 per annum
Grade B: R821 142 - R876018 per annum
Grade C: R925 146 - R1 084 368 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per the OSD
prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification; A minimum of 3
years post qualification Quantity Surveying experience; Compulsory registration with
the South African Council of Quantity Survey Professionals (SACQSP) as a
Professional Quantity Surveyor; A valid code B (or higher) driving license.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical: Programme and project
management; Quantity Survey principles and methodologies; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal compliance; Technical
report writing; Technical consulting; creating high performance culture; Networking;
Professional judgement. Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical;
Creativity; Self-management; Financial management; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy;
Planning and organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on buildings, structures or facilities; Co-ordinate
professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity surveying; Ensure adherence to
quantity determination standards; Provide quantity surveying advice and technical
support in the evaluation of costs; Ensure the adoption of technical and quality
strategies; Develop quantity surveying related policies, methods and practices; Provide
solutions on non-compliance on quantity determination; Review the cost
determinations of projects and estimates accomplished by building designers and/or
sub-professional personnel; Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional
registration; Human capital development; Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity
surveyors and related technical and administrative personnel to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound quantity surveying principles and
code of practice; Supervise quantity surveying work and processes; Administer
performance management and development; Office administration and budget
planning; Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of
resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and procedure for procurement,
SCM and personnel human resource administration; Monitor and control expenditure;
Report on expenditure and service delivery; Research and development; Continuous
professional development according to council guidelines; Research/literature studies
on quantity survey to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
quantity survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E du Plooy at Etienne.duPlooy@westerncape.gov.za
POST 11/230 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DISPOSAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI 72/2024 R1
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Accounting/ Supply Chain Management/ Commerce; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Finance/ Supply Chain Management/ Accounting/ Auditing.
Recommendation: Relevant accounting experience and working knowledge of SCOA;
A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Accounting; SCOA; PFMA; Logistical Information System
(LOGIS); Asset Management; Skills needed: Written and verbal communication;
Proven computer literacy in MS Office package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team; Problem-solving and Decision-making.
140
DUTIES : Implement the asset management system, including the establishment and
implementation of the Asset Management Unit and Departmental policies and
procedures; Develop and maintain the strategic and annual asset management plans
aligned with the departmental strategy and budget, and in consultation with Public
Works where applicable; Develop and maintain asset registers, including acquisitions,
maintenance management, transfers and valuations; Develop asset needs
assessment, acquisition management, operational and disposal plan and execute the
asset verification, investigate and report on variances, make necessary
recommendations to resolve discrepancies and update the asset register; Develop,
implement and manage mechanisms to safeguard assets, prepare monthly
reconciliation with supporting schedules for the asset registers to the relevant
accounting records and resolve uncleared items; Prepare a business plan for the
lifecycle of assets including an analysis of pricing options using lifecycle costs as well
as recommendations on the most appropriate asset solution; Ensure compliance with
relevant legislative, statutory, regulatory, and supervisory requirements towards the
achievement of component projects and goals; Determine and communicate financial
requirements to execute assigned deliverables; Human Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Matthyse Tel No: (021) 483 4636
POST 11/231 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CANDIDATE PROGRAMME AND PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 25/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ Bachelor’s degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3-years supervisory level experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Extensive
knowledge and experience in Human Resources; Exposure to professional needs for
training programmes and Performance Management; Knowledge and experience
inroads engineering or related services; Experience in developing instructional and
training programmes; Proven experience in written communication; Ability to collect
data and assess program monitoring and evaluation activities; Strong interpersonal
and communication skills; Strong leadership and coaching skills; Willingness and
ability to travel regularly throughout the Western Cape. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); Road and Transport
Legislation and Policies; Skills Development frameworks; OSD on Engineering and
Related occupations; Principles and processes for providing customer and personal
services, including customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for
services and evaluation of customer satisfaction; Monitoring and evaluation methods,
tools and techniques; Business and management principles involved in strategic
planning, resource allocation, human resources modelling, leadership techniques,
production methods and coordination of people and resources; Political sciences and
public policy; Relationship management; Communication (written and Verbal);
Problem solving and decision making skills.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the resources to ensure the achievement of component goals;
Ensure compliance with relevant legislative, statutory, regulatory and supervisory
requirements towards the achievement of component projects and goals; Determine
and communicate financial requirements to execute assigned deliverables;
Communicate and apply the Batho Pele concept in service delivery; Human Resource
Management: Motivate, train and guide staff within the component to achieve and
maintain excellence in service delivery; Manage information by applying tools and
techniques to inform decision-making in government operations, produce reports,
enhance service delivery, support transparency, support integration/collaboration
across departments government spheres.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Michael Hendrickse Tel No: (021) 483 3107.
POST 11/232 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE AND HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE (BUILDING) REF NO: DOI 34/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 403 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent; or N3certificate (or higher) and a
passed trade test in the building industry; or Registration as an Engineering
Technician; A minimum of 3-years appropriate experience; A valid code B (or higher)
driving license. Recommendation: Experience in the following: Preparation of
specifications, plans and working drawings; Interpreting of Bill of Quantities (BOQ);
Technical experience in the following: Building contracts and contract administration;
Occupational health and safety act and regulations. Competencies: Knowledge and
141
understanding of the following: Facets of the construction industry and National
Building Regulations; Construction regulations within the Occupational Health and
Safety Act; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Report writing; Written and verbal
communication.
DUTIES : Responsible for delivery of infrastructure maintenance, upgrading and minor new
works; Ensure that project management and administrative principles are applied to
each project; Liaison with external service providers; Responsible for PERMIS,
mentorship and development; Ensure socio-economic impact is maintained; Ensure
that Facility Condition Assessments (FCAs), as per Government Immovable Assets
Management Act (No.19of 2007) are delivered consistently.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Titus Tel No: (021) 483 5215.
POST 11/233 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR (MECHANICAL), HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE REF
NO: DOI 31/2025
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 403 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent; or N3 certificate (or higher) and a
passed trade test in the building environment; or Registration as an Engineering
Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid code B (or higher)
driving license. Recommendation: Experience in the following: Building construction
on-site experience; Preparation of specifications, plans and working drawings and the
ability to interpret Bills of Quantities; Mechanical matters, familiar with contract
administration, Occupational Health and Safety Act and relevant regulations.
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following: Facets of the
construction industry and National Building Regulations; Latest SANS 1238:2005,
1287-1:2007, 1287-2:2007, 1424:2013, 10173:2003, 1744:2017 and SANS 10142
[Electrical wiring code], compilation of specifications and tender regulations; Skills
needed: Proven computer literacy; Technical report writing; Written and verbal
communication; Customer focus and responsiveness; Quality Management; Scope
Change Management; Conflict Management; Problem solving and analysis; Planning
and organising; Contract Management; Ability to work well within a team.
DUTIES : Deliver infrastructure maintenance, upgrading and minor new work of Health Facilities;
Project management and administration in respect of scheduled and unscheduled
maintenance works, executed by contractors; Manage the activities of contractors on
construction sites, and exercise quality control on projects; Preparation of tender
documentation, specifications, and Bills of Quantities, analyse and compile project
documentation; Budget preparation and estimates of costs for proposed maintenance
repair works; The assessment, preparation, compilation and submission of facility
condition reports of Health Facilities; Maintain and report progress consistently to the
department management information system and back up documents and information
to the database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Titus Tel No: (021) 483 5215
POST 11/234 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 28/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 - R396 522 per annum
Grade B: R419 325 -R449 079 per annum
Grade C: R472 812 - R556 080 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an
Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3-years relevant post qualification technical
(Civil engineering) experience; A valid driving license (Code B or higher).
Recommendation: Working knowledge or experience in the condition assessments of
surfaced and gravel roads; Efficient skills in report writing and presenting; Willing to
travel to sites and workaway from home; Efficient computer literacy and good working
knowledge of MS Office suite. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Geotechnical and pavement design of roads; Road infrastructure material; Technical
support service knowledge in respect of material quality control and management for
road and bridge construction; Legal compliance; As-built and standard specifications;
Ability to solve broadly defined technological challenges through application of proven
techniques and procedures; Communication(written and verbal);Interpersonal skills;
People Management; Planning and organising; Record keeping; Problem solving;
Change management.
142
DUTIES : Render technical services in line with qualification; Assist engineers, technologists and
associates in the field; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical / engineering
operational plan; Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements;
Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology and produce technical designs with specifications and submit for
evaluation and approval by the relevant authority; Compile and submit reports as
required; Develop, implement and maintain system databases; Liaise with relevant
stakeholders on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NJ van Gass Tel No: (021) 483 5160
POST 11/235 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI
29/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year National Diploma (B-Degree or higher qualification); A minimum of 1 year
relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Administration rules
and regulations; Departmental information systems (BAS, ECM, SITS); Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Organising and record keeping; Presentation and
organisational skills; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines; Able to work independently and in a team environment;
Good leadership and motivational.
DUTIES : Timeous and accurate registration of all project information on the Project
Management Information System; Establish and maintain project documentation
library, this includes providing document management support, the identification,
change control and administration on all project-related documents; Perform quality
reviews; Keep the Project Information Administrator fully up to date with all
development and track and report on overall project progress; Produce minutes and
agendas for project meetings; Assist with technical user support; Assist the
Project/Programme Manager to implement new processes and procedures; Work
closely with line, project and programme managers to provide project administration
support throughout the project life cycle.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Williams at Peter.Williams@westerncape.gov.za
POST 11/236 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TECHNICAL ADMINISTRATION: HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI 33/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation: Computer
literate. Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Administration rules
and regulations; Departmental information systems (BAS, BIZ Project, My Content,
SITS); Skills needed: Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel); Meet deadlines; Record
keeping; Written and verbal communication; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to
work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Render administrative and reception assistance to professional staff regarding filing
,GG transport, telephone account and invoices; Assist with the ordering and issuing of
stationery; Processing of payments; Compiling of claims; Assist with the copying, filing,
faxing and scanning of documentation within component; Draft and type submissions,
default letters, arrange meetings and agendas and taking of minutes and general
correspondence; Data capturing; Relieve as secretary; Coordination of training
requirements; Making travel arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Williams at Peter.Williams@westerncape.gov.za
POST 11/237 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SALARIES REF NO: DOI 35/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Recommendation: Proven working
knowledge/exposure in MS office packages (MS Word and Excel). Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: Financial functions, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics; Public Service
financial legislation, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999,
(DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Financial operating systems
(PERSAL,BAS, LOGIS). Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven
computer literacy; Planning and Organising; Interpersonal; Decision making; Problem
solving; Ability to work under pressure.
143
DUTIES : Reconcile and prepare payments& pay-over; Execute Standard Operating Procedures
in relation to salary and expenditure; Report inability to comply with prescribed
requirements; Ensure conformity of PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Davids Tel No: (021) 483 4040.
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/238 : REGIONAL COORDINATOR: CDW MANAGEMENT: REGION B (WEST COAST)
REF NO: LG 17/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 3 years relevant Community Development Worker (CDW) experience.
Recommendation: Community Development Learnership Certificate; Exposure to
community liaising; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport,
may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on
the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development,
and operational management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and systems;
Knowledge and understanding of the regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional,
legal and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial
policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the day;
Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management in general.
Skills in the following: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Presentation skills; Influencing skills; Motivational
skills; Analysing skills.
DUTIES : To manage and supervise the staff performance management of teams of CDW’s
(between 20-40), people at levels 6 and 8and to lead the team to perform effective
functions within the communities and municipalities; To develop a Joint District Work
Programmes taking into account the National, Provincial and Municipal programmes,
and assist in resolving blockages to effective implementation work plans; To
communicate with Municipalities, Government Departments and communities, and
promote and enhance networks with other stakeholders in order to improve services
delivery; Compile monthly reports and documents, as required, on progress, issues
attended to, implement action taken and monitor outcomes; Co-ordinate, manage and
monitor CDW’s – HR, Admin and Records; Promote, enhance and accelerate
community access to government services through information sessions, mobilisations
and discussions; Deputise, and maintain regular contact with Deputy CDW Provincial
managers and refer requiring strategic interventions or advice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bell Tel No: (021) 483 3039
144
POST 11/239 : REGIONAL COORDINATOR: CDW MANAGEMENT: REGION A (METRO 2, CITY
OF CAPE TOWN) REF NO: LG 18/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 3 years relevant Community Development Worker (CDW) experience.
Recommendation: Community Development Learnership Certificate; Exposure to
community liaising; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport,
may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on
the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development,
and operational management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and systems;
Knowledge and understanding of the regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional,
legal and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial
policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the day;
Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management in general.
Skills in the following: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Presentation skills; Influencing skills; Motivational
skills; Analysing skills.
DUTIES : To manage and supervise the staff performance management of teams of CDW’s
(between 20-40), people at levels 6 and 8and to lead the team to perform effective
functions within the communities and municipalities; To develop a Joint District Work
Programmes taking into account the National, Provincial and Municipal programmes,
and assist in resolving blockages to effective implementation work plans; To
communicate with Municipalities, Government Departments and communities, and
promote and enhance networks with other stakeholders in order to improve services
delivery; Compile monthly reports and documents, as required, on progress, issues
attended to, implement action taken and monitor outcomes; Co-ordinate, manage and
monitor CDW’s – HR, Admin and Records; Promote, enhance and accelerate
community access to government services through information sessions, mobilisations
and discussions; Deputise, and maintain regular contact with Deputy CDW Provincial
managers and refer requiring strategic interventions or advice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bell Tel No: (021) 483 3039
POST 11/240 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER SUPERVISOR: CDW PROGRAMME
(METRO 2 CITY OF CAPE TOWN) REF NO: LG 19/2025
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 403 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience in community development; A valid code B
(or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but
who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Proof of
voluntary work to the benefit of the community. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures; Applicable policies
and service delivery orientation; Cognisant of the regulatory and compliance
framework; Dynamics, culture and language of the target community; Government
operations and procedures. Skills needed: Communication (Verbal and written);
Computer literacy in MS Office; Literacy and numeracy; Presentation; Influencing;
Motivation and analysing skills.
DUTIES : Develop the local work programme taking into account the National, Provincial and
Municipal Programmes Competency; Liaise between Regional Manager,
Municipalities as well as Government Departments (Provincial and National);
Reporting and information management; Stay abreast on all services rendered by
government and the processes and mechanisms to access the services; Supervise
community development worker teams.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bell Tel No: (021) 483 3039
145
POST 11/241 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (BANKING) REF NO: LG
16/2025
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Recommendation: Relevant experience in a financial
environment. Competencies: A good understanding and knowledge of the following:
Basic financial operating systems (such as BAS - Basic Accounting System); Financial
accounting processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and Provincial
Treasury Regulations, and other financial policies, prescripts and directives. Skills
needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy in MS Office
Packages (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Numeracy and accuracy; Working with people;
Ability to work under pressure; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Banking; Petty cash and cashier duties; Maintenance of supplier’s entity information/
database on BAS (Basic Accounting System); Journals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 9121
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/242 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT REF NO: WCMD 16/2024
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 3 years relevant supervisory level experience; A valid code B (or higher)
driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Mobility related systems and
technology; Project management methodologies and procedures; Policy development
and operational management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and systems;
Public finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Skills needed:
Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project management;
Accounting, finance and audit; Planning and organising; Analytical; Report-writing;
Presentation; Interpersonal; Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render support with the integration of the various mobility systems; Render support
with the co-ordination and promotion of mobility related systems in collaboration with
the relevant stakeholders, including land transport systems; Provide accurate and
timeous departmental information to enable effective and efficient decision-making
within the department; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Singh Tel No: (021) 483 5519
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/243 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ROAD SAFETY MANAGEMENT (WEST COAST) REF
NO: WCMD 23/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
146
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project Management and Social
Science; A minimum of 3 year’s experience at supervisory level in a road safety
management working environment or related fields; A valid driving license (Code B or
higher). Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable
access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning and execution of road safety
interventions; Creation of awareness and inform road users of traffic safety projects
and road safety issues; Marketing of heavy-duty driver training assistance; Monitoring
of services rendered by driver training schools; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Public service
procedures, processes and systems; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Planning; Organising; Analytical;
Report-writing; Presentation; Inter-personal; Problem-solving; Supervisory; Ability to
work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines;
Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Oversee the planning of road safety education and awareness interventions in the
West Coast Region; Ensure that the road safety targets are reached in the West Coast
Region to enhance road safety and service delivery; Accounting for progress and
performance; Competent asset stewardship; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kafaar Tel No: (021) 911 2162 – extension 105
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/244 : DEMAND ANALYST: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: WCMD 18/2025
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 403 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3
years relevant experience in a supply chain management working environment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Procurement and provisioning services;
Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act; Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act and its associated regulations, practice notes and circulars; Public
Service Anti-corruption Strategy; Supply Chain Management Guide to Accounting
Officers and Authorities; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999, National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, financial delegations and best
practice in the Public Service; Relevant delegation frameworks, service level
agreements, supplier management, contract management, strategic sourcing,
departmental policies and procedures, government financial systems; Strategic
sourcing process across broad range of commodities in a Goods and Services
environment; Legal aspects in supply chain management and ability to draft heads of
terms and input to SLA negotiations; Supply chain management AOS, Delegations;
Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management; Skills
needed: Numeracy literacy; Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Project Management and Administration; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration.
DUTIES : Render support with the facilitation of demand planning for specific Mobility related
commodities as well as products, services and equipment; Render support with the
facilitation of acquisition management support; Render support with the facilitation of
contract management support in the Department; Supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CK Davids Tel No: (021) 483 6019
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/245 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (ICT AND SYSTEMS): SYSTEMS AND
TECHNOLOGY REF NO: WCMD 17/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 1 year experience in an administrative support working environment; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Organisational and management practices, policies and
operational functioning of the Department; financial management, monitoring and
reporting procedures and systems related to budget monitoring instrument, approved
post list, expenditure commitment reports; General office administration and database
management; General support systems such as BAS; Information and Record
147
Management/Administration; Administrative procedures and processes; Procurement
processes; Computer-based information systems; Public Finance Management Act,
1999 (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations and Provincial Instructions; Skills
needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical
Analysis; Legal Administration; Organising and planning; Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services; Co-ordinate ICT activities and maintain
the relevant systems; Provide support to the Sub-Directorate for supply chain
management; Render advice and liaise with regard to administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TL Singh Tel No: (021) 483 5519
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/246 : SUPPLY CHAIN LIAISON OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
WCMD 19/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 1 year experience in a supply chain management working environment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Procurement and provisioning services;
Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act; Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act and its associated regulations, practice notes, circulars; Public Service
Ant-corruption Strategy; Supply Chain Management Guide to Accounting Officers and
Authorities; Public Finance Management Act(PFMA), 1999, National Treasury
Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, financial delegations and best practice
in the Public Service; Relevant delegation frameworks, service level agreements,
supplier management, contract management, strategic sourcing, departmental policies
and procedures, Government financial systems; Public sector supply chain
management models and processes; Strategic sourcing process across broad range
of commodities in a Goods and Services environment; Mobility procurement market;
Contract management, including legal aspects in supply chain management and ability
to draft heads of terms and input to SLA negotiation; Supply chain management AOS,
Delegations; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic,
Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Planning; Organising;
Problem-solving; Report-writing; Analytical; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness
to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Render support to ensure collaboration with various suppliers and stakeholders to
optimise procurement activities and streamline supply chain management processes;
Acts as liaison nodal point between the Department and all external partners;
Communication and cooperation; Reporting and Database Management; Supervisory
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Adams Tel No: (021) 483 6329
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/247 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD 27/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification);
A minimum of 1-year experience in a financial accounting and/or management
accounting working environment. Recommendation: Relevant experience in a financial
accounting and/or management accounting working environment; Working knowledge
of general information support systems such as PERSAL, LOGIS and BAS or similar
systems. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislative framework governing
the Public Service; Departmental accounting services; Public Service financial
legislation, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),1999, (DORA, PSA,
PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Financial functions, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics; General information
support systems such as PERSAL, LOGIS and BAS; State accountant duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics; Working procedures in terms of the working environment; Project
management; Public service procedures, processes and systems; Skills needed:
Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Planning and
organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Record Keeping; Interpersonal Relations;
148
Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to perform routine tasks;
Ability to operate office equipment; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to work
irregular hours and meet tight deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from
office.
DUTIES : Manage the claims recoverable and payables; Manage the clearance of balances in
the assets and liabilities account and the adjustment journals for the Department;
Manage the provision of asset and liability information for monthly; IYM
reporting/financial statement reporting; Authorising claim payments; Authorising all
receipts; Ensure that all cashier functions and duties are done; Manage and clear all
suspense accounts in cash management section; Reconcile and clear all bank
interfaces and exceptions; Manage and checking of daily cashflow; Checking and
authorising revenue payment; Confirmation of payments over 1 million banking detail;
Clear funds account and compiling confirmation of funds to Provincial Treasury;
Manage, oversee and or authorise banking reconciliation monthly; Render support with
the authorising of BAS journals; Render support with the reconciliations of licenses,
permits registration and penalty fees; Ensure completeness and accuracy of financial
information; Perform supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PS Marinus Tel No: (021) 483 5313
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/248 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD 21/2025
SALARY : R216 417- R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Recommendation: Experience in a financial
accounting and/or management accounting working environment. Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: financial functions, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics; Public Service
financial legislations, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999,
(DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Public Service Act, 1994, as amended;
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997; Legislative framework governing the Public
Service; Working procedures in terms of the working environment; Financial operating
systems; Database Management; Information and Records Management; Skills
needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy (MS Office);
Planning and Organising; Recordkeeping; Problem-solving; Interpersonal Relations;
Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to perform routine tasks;
Ability to operate office equipment.
DUTIES : Cashier duties; Banking services; Bookkeeping duties; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PS Marinus Tel No: (021) 483 5313
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/249 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD 22/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Recommendation: Experience in a financial
accounting and/or management accounting working environment. Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: Financial functions, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics; Public Service
financial legislations, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999,
(DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS);Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Working
procedures in terms of the working environment; Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and Organising; Interpersonal
Relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to perform
routine tasks; Ability to operate office equipment.
DUTIES : Financial Accounting: Render financial accounting transactions; Receive invoices (e.g.
payment vouchers and PERSAL claims); Check invoices for correctness, verification
and approval (internal control); Process invoices(e.g. capture payments); Filing of all
documents; Perform Bookkeeping support services; Capture all financial transactions;
Clear ledger accounts; Compile journals; Provide payment office clerical support
149
services within the component; Render support with reporting responsibilities; Provide
financial administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matthews Tel No: (021) 483 2931
APPLICATIONS : To apply submit your application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs
or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 11/250 : CLEANER: TRAFFIC SUPPORT SERVICES (BRACKENFELL) REF NO: WCMD
20/2025
SALARY : R131 265 – R154 626 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write/Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding cleaning equipment; Good communication skills
(written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provision of all cleaning services in the Directorate Traffic Law Enforcement
(Brackenfell); Clean general kitchens; Cleaning the restrooms; Keep and maintain
cleaning material and equipment; Set up venues for meetings and perform ad hoc
tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Phillips Tel No: (021) 9831500
APPLICATIONS : To submit your application, there are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only
use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, 44
Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday between 07:00am
to 17:00pm);
Or 2 Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO Box
22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3 Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in the
appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be clearly
indicated on the Z83 application form. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any
correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your application as
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences.
The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department.
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/251 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: WESTERN CAPE POLICE OMBUDSMAN REF NO:
POCS 03/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 1-2 year post matric qualification (equivalent or higher); A minimum of
3 years relevant experience. Recommendation: Proficiency in technology and IT
Systems. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following: Public
Service Legislation and procedures; Government protocol; Meeting protocol; Complex
minute-taking; Financial administration (budget, procurement and SCM); Spheres of
government; Departmental operational systems and procedures etc, LOGIS. Skills
needed: Proven computer literacy; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Ability to
function under rapidly changing and pressurized circumstances; Administration skills;
150
Time Management skills; Working with People; Following Instructions and Procedures;
Writing and Reporting; Planning and Organizing; Delivering Results and Meeting
Customer Expectations; Learning and Researching; Relating and Networking;
Presenting and Communicating Information.
DUTIES : Render a secretariat/receptionist service to the Office of the WCPPO; Provide general
administrative office support services; Provide financial and supply chain management
support to the Office of the WCPPO; Render a registry and knowledge management
service to the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 0669
POST 11/252 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: WESTERN CAPE POLICE OMBUDSMAN REF NO:
POCS 04/2025
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited secretarial
diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 or relevant
higher tertiary qualification (a certificate of completion should be provided); A minimum
of 3 years’ experience in rendering a support service to management/ senior
management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Recommendation: Proficiency in technology and IT Systems. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Regulations/policies/prescripts and
procedures; Administrative and Office Management; Technology and IT Systems.
Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Language
skills and the ability to communicate will with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds; Excellent telephone etiquette; Sound organisational skills;
Good people skills; High level of reliability; Ability to act with tact and discretion; Ability
to do research and analyse documents and situations; Good grooming and
presentation; Self-management and motivation; Basic knowledge on financial
administration.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Ombudsman; Render
administrative support services to the Ombudsman; Provide general office support;
Adhoc duties; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies
and other documents and ensure that the application there-of is properly understood.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 0669
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates must
make themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as decided by
the selection panel. Please ensure that you submit your application on or before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered. The selection process will be
guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Kindly note that technical
support is only available from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you
experience any difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at
0861 370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment
tools. The nominated candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific training
programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that
potential SMS members have a background on processes and procedures linked to
the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours (15
days). Full details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/ Furthermore,
thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications for our positions, and
as such will not be able to respond personally to all applications. Therefore, should you
151
not hear from us within 10 weeks from close of advert please consider your application
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/253 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES (SOCIAL CLUSTER)
REF NO: DOTP 26/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A legal qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a legal practice or legal department
in the public or private sector. Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the
SMS (Senior Management Service) prior to appointment. Competencies: Proven
knowledge of: constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector; the South African legal system with a specific focus on
Constitutional Law, Administrative Law and the Law of Contract; policies of the
government of the day, with specific reference to the Provincial Strategic Plan; global,
regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the Western Cape
Government; inter-governmental and international relations; people management and
administrative systems and processes; and financial management processes. The
ability to give independent advice on complex legal matters; The ability to brief and
oversee the work of legal professionals; Excellent inter-personal skills; Excellent
communication skills; Excellent negotiating and problem-solving skills; Outstanding
planning, organising and people management skills; Access to and the ability to
develop and maintain networks relevant to the task environment; Computer literacy
skills. Recommendation A LLB degree with admission as an advocate or attorney.
DUTIES : Line Management: Provide formal legal opinions and legal advice to the Provincial
Executive and provincial departments in the social cluster (Health and Wellness,
Education, Police Oversight and Community Safety, Environmental Affairs and
Development Planning, Agriculture, Social Development, Cultural Affairs and Sport);
Render advice to the Provincial Executive and provincial departments in the social
cluster on correspondence of a legal technical nature. Ensure legally sound contracts.
legal inputs on behalf of Members of the Provincial Executive and departments in
internal and external forums. Verify the legal aspects in submissions to the Provincial
Cabinet, Provincial Ministers and Heads of Department. Strategic Management: To
define and review on a continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities
of the Directorate. Participation in the Chief Directorate, and Directorate’s strategic
planning process. Active involvement in the development and management of the
strategic and business plans for the Directorate. To evaluate the performance of the
Directorate on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives
and standards. To report to the Chief Director: Legal Governance and Advisory
Services on a regular basis on the activities of the Directorate and on matters of
substantial importance. To monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation
and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities
of the Directorate, and of the resources employed by it. Financial Management:
Manage participation in the budgeting process at Directorate level. Ensure the
preparation of the annual and adjustment budgets for the Directorate. Assume direct
accountability for the efficient, economic and effective control and management of the
Directorate’s budget and expenditure Human Resource Management Participate in the
recruitment of employees in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the
achievement of the Directorate’s strategic and business plans. Motivate, train and
guide employees within the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in service
delivery. Actively manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of employees
within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. NJ Boshoff Tel No: (021) 483 3377
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/254 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TALENT SOURCING REF NO: DOTP 29/2025
(3-Year Contract Period)
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 3-year National Diploma majoring in HRM or a B-Degree in Industrial
Psychology with a minimum of 3-years’ supervisory experience in a Recruitment and
Selection environment at a administrator/recruiter level. A valid code B driving license.
Recommendation: Experience with technical recruiting which includes e-Recruit
support, competency-based recruitment processes and the administrative processes
152
which is associated with these tasks; Advising senior and executive management on
the recruitment and selection process and best talent. Proven candidate sourcing
skills; Proven experience in complex data management; Direct liaison with media and
recruitment agencies w.r.t advertising of vacancies; Supervision of staff; Willingness to
work longer hours in line with print media publication times. Consulting with various
stakeholders on different management levels. Competencies: General knowledge of
various employment laws and practices; In-depth knowledge Recruitment prescripts
(legislation and policy documents); The following skills: Excellent interpersonal and
coaching; Database development management and reporting; Supervisory;
Consultative and effective Problem solving; Effective oral and written communication.
Ability to gather and analyse information; Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Quality control of all operational work; Project Management control and allocation of
tasks; Ensure the publication of advertisements in various media; Facilitate the
compilation of advertisements and pre-selection questionnaires and provide
training/workshops on Talent Sourcing, e-recruit and reporting; Ensure that bulletins
are published as per schedule; Ensure that advertisements are published in DPSA,
media and e-recruit platform; Communicate with service providers regarding
advertising standards, response handling enquiries, and participate in the creation of
specifications; Handling complex inquiries from clients and applicants; Facilitate and
provide professional advice on the sourcing of talent across various professions,
competency-based recruitment practices, inclusive of shortlisting, interviewing and
verification's (personnel suitability checks) and the appointment decisions, as well as
the issuing of employment offers; Facilitate audit processes; Ensure recruitment and
selection data integrity and report on any irregularities; Manage staff and report on the
unit's performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Gerber Tel No: (021) 483 6028
POST 11/255 : TALENT SOURCING OFFICER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF NO: DOTP
28/2025 (X3-POSTS)
(3-Year Contract Period)
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (or higher qualification) majoring in Human
Resource Management or B-Degree (or higher qualification) in Industrial Psychology;
A minimum of 3 year’s experience in a Recruitment and Selection environment, A valid
code B driving license. Recommendation: Experience in the following: Online
recruitment system and providing a support function; Competency-based recruitment
and selection and the administrative processes which is associated with these tasks;
Candidate sourcing across various professions and platforms and consultative; Data
management; Advising Senior and Executive management on the recruitment and
selection processes and best talent; Willingness to work longer hours and travel when
required, A valid code B driving License. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Competency based recruitment processes, inclusive of head-hunting processes;
Shortlisting and interview processes; Public service / government policies;
Competency Based Recruitment; Online recruitment systems; Database management.
Skills in the following: Communication (verbal and written); Monitoring, evaluation and
reporting; Presentation; Consultative and effective Problem solving; Research;
Networking working with people and ability to meet customer expectations; Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Responsible for drafting of vacancy advertisements which includes application
questionnaires in consultation with client departments; Liaising with various service
providers (Media/e-Recruit and Response Handling); Identify, address and resolve
selection delays; Facilitate and advise on the compiling of shortlists; Create
competency-based interview questions; Responsible for logistical arrangements for
interviews; Finalise interview processes through competency assessments/proficiency
tests and nominations; Maintenance of the recruitment and selection database and
reporting on delays; Execute high standard of quality in all operational work; Dealing
with inquiries from clients and applicants; Facilitate and provide professional advice on
the sourcing of talent across various professions, inclusive of shortlisting, interview
processes and verification's (personnel suitability checks) and the appointment
decision, as well as the issuing of employment offers; Communication across various
levels regarding e-recruit processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Gerber Tel No: (021) 483 6028
POST 11/256 : REGISTRY CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT RECORDS REF NO: DOTP 27/2025
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
153
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) Recommendation: Registry
environment experience; Ability to do physically demanding work within a registry
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation and
regulations relating to registry functions; The storage and retrieval procedures in terms
of the Registry working environment; Registry duties and practices; Record-keeping
procedures; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Proven computer literacy skills
in MS Office; Excellent customer service skills; Must be able to meet the physical
demands of the job.
DUTIES : Responsible for the safe-keeping of all official documents, and the proper filing of
records which includes the classification, neat and correct placing of material in files;
Issue and receive files (individual file requests and bulk file requests) using a document
tracking system, to clients as requested; Responsible for file transfers into and out of
the Corporate Services Centre; Process documents for archiving and disposal; Provide
a Registry counter service; Assist with the document control function; The receipt,
opening and sorting of post; Dispatch of outgoing post; Provide general support
services to the registry; Scanning of documents into electronic system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Gqoboka Tel No: (021) 483 4707
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application
online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a practical
assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. Should you experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note
that technical support (challenges with online application) is only available from
Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person
as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/257 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY, MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: PT
04/2025
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Commerce,
SCM or public administration; A minimum of 3 year’s experience in supply chain
management, A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Recommendation: Experience in the following: Developing and implementing
policies and prescripts; Conducting compliance to policies and prescripts assessment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public sector supply chain management
legislation, policies and procedures; Business intelligence analytic capability;
Research and reporting procedures; Skills needed: Communication (written and
verbal); Writing and reporting; Analysing; Presenting and communicating information;
Learning and researching; Applying expertise and technology.
DUTIES : Develop, review and continuously improve supply chain management policies,
strategies, systems, best practices, norms and standards; Provide advice, guidance
and support on implementation of supply chain management policy, norms and
standards; Establish supply chain management governance mechanisms and enforce
compliance; Monitor and enforce compliance; Monitor, evaluate and report on supply
chain management system and supplier performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lee-Anne Cupido Tel No: (021) 483 5486
POST 11/258 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ANALYST) REF NO:
PT 39/2024 R1
SALARY : R444 036 - R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Finance,
Economics, Commerce or Built Environment; A minimum of 5 years relevant functional
154
experience in monitoring infrastructure projects/ programmes; A valid (Code B or
higher driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Public service policies and procedures; Functioning of National/
Provincial as well as Local Government; Financial Management; Working knowledge
of Treasury Regulation 16 and National Treasury’s PPP Manual / National Treasury’s
Municipal Service Delivery and PPP Guidelines; Project Management; Written and
verbal communication skills; Proven computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Conduct assessment of potential PPP infrastructure projects; Provide support in the
implementation of PPP infrastructure projects; Analyses restructuring projects and
feasibility studies; Provide technical assistance, support and advice for PPP
infrastructure projects; Monitor compliance with relevant regulations governing PPP’s.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Cloete Tel No: (021) 483 6862
POST 11/259 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORTING AND INTERLINKED FINANCIAL
SYSTEMS REF NO: PT 05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification)
in Financial Management, Accounting, Information Systems or Business Management;
A minimum of 3years experience in financial systems. Recommendation:
Enhancement of data support and quality using Power BI for visualisation for insights.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial systems; Administration;
Strategic planning and organising skills; Communication skills (written and verbal);
Proven computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assist departments with enquiries pertaining to financial systems; Assist with
investigation of discrepancies in data sets and enable a clean and up to date data set;
Maintenance and re-verification of reporting categories for financial systems; Perform
financial system support functions; Provide training to financial system users;
Supervise human resource staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Spelete Tel No: (021) 4835650/Mr B Gordon Tel No: (021) 4837634
155