PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 27 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 01 AUGUST 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST: OFFICE OF THE PREMIER: Kindly
note that the post of Director: Stakeholder Management, Cooperative Governance and
Protocol in the Office of the Premier advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular
26 dated 25 July 2025 with the closing date 08 August 2025, the reference number was
erroneously captured as Ref: NWP/OOP/2023/47. The correct Reference number is REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2025/47.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT A 04 - 05
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 06 - 09
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM C 10 - 11
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE D 12 - 14
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 15 - 46
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 47 - 62
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES G 63 - 65
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT H 66 - 67
NATIONAL TREASURY I 68 - 75
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE J 76 - 80
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE K 81 - 87
TOURISM L 88 - 94
WATER AND SANITATION M 95 - 97
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES N 98 - 99
THE PRESIDENCY O 100 - 101
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE P 102 - 107
GAUTENG Q 108 - 114
KWAZULU NATAL R 115 - 116
LIMPOPO S 117 - 127
MPUMALANGA T 128 - 140
NORTHERN CAPE U 141 - 142
NORTH WEST V 143 - 144
WESTERN CAPE W 145 - 188
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (PDARD)
APPLICATIONS : Application Procedure:
Free State Province: Email: recruitment@dard.gov.za for attention Ms S
Hlekiso or hand delivered at Admin Building, 1st Floor, Room 228, Glen College
of Agriculture, Glen, for attention Ms S Hlekiso.
Gauteng Province: please apply online at http://professinaljobcentre.gov.za
or Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Main entrance 56 Eloff Street, Umnotho House
Johannesburg.
KwaZulu Natal Province: Email: kznjobssouth@dard.gov.za or hand
delivered at the following stations: Cedara Office Reception (Head Office) at
01 Cedara Road, Pietermaritzburg or South Service Centre Offices (Hilton) at
4 Pin Oak Avenue, Hilton or North Service Office (Richards Bay) at Lot 11634,
Corner of Verbena and Aloe Loop Street, Veld ‘n Vlei, Richards Bay.
Mpumalanga Province: Email: Applications quoting relevant reference
number should either be hand delivered, posted or e-mailed to the following
addresses: For Head Office: to the Director: Human Resource Management &
Development, Samora Machel Building, Private Bag X 11219, Riverside Park,
Mbombela, (1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-ho@mpg.gov.za.
Ehlanzeni District Office: to the District Director, Block 4, Aqua Street, PO
Box 266, Riverside Park, Mbombela, (1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-
ehls@mpg.gov.za.
Bohlabela District Office: to the District Director, 101 Main Road, Private Bag
X1321, Thulamahashe, (1365) or Email: dardlearecruitment-
ehln@mpg.gov.za.
Gert Sibande District Office: The District Director, 44 Church Street, Private
Bag X 9071, Ermelo (2350) or Email: dardlearecruitment-gs@mpg.gov.za.
Nkangala District Office: to the District Director, Ebhudlweni Building,
Government Complex, Private Bag X 4017, KwaMhlanga (1022) or Email:
dardlearecruitment-nka@mpg.gov.za.
Northern Cape Province: Email: blommiejacobs@ncpg.gov.za or
tpika@ncpg.gov.za or Private Bag X5018, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand Deliver to:
162 George Street, Kimberley, 8301
North-West Province: Email: Dardrecruitment-HO@nwpg.gov.za for
Attention: Ms. Keneilwe Modiegi or hand delivered to the Director Human
Resource Management, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development,
Ngaka Modiri Molema District Office, (Training Centre Building), Corner
Onkgopotse Tiro Road Mmabatho
Western Cape Province: Western Cape Department of Agriculture:
Candidates are to only use the online application portal at
www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications: Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing
date as no late applications will be considered. Candidates are discouraged
from submitting duplicate applications. If you apply for more than 1 post, please
submit separate applications for each post that you apply for. Due to the large
number of applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be
acknowledged. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed
on the filling of posts, or the Department is affected by any process such as,
but not limited to, restructuring or reorganization of posts, the Department
reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post
at any time in the future. The application must include only a completed and
signed new Z83 Form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a detailed Curriculum Vitae
which may be submitted as per the instruction in the application procedure.
Note only the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae should be attached. The
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will not be held responsible
for server delays where applicants are permitted to use the e-recruitment
system. Certified copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate, highest
required qualifications and proof of professional registration as well as a
driver’s licence, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human
Resources on or before the day of the interview date. Failure to do so will result
3
in your application being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all
foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation report (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates are required
to undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical assessment
and the other will be an integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment. Selection
committees will score both pre-entry assessments as an additional criterion in
the interview process, to determine the candidate’s suitability based on post
technical and generic requirements. Important: PDARD is an equal opportunity
and affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote representivity in
PDARD through the filling of posts. The Department reserves the right not to
fill a position. In compliance with the Protection of Personal Information Act 4
of 2013 (POPIA), the PDARD assures all applicants that any personal
information provided during the recruitment process will be treated with the
utmost confidentiality and used solely for recruitment purposes. Your privacy
and data security are of paramount importance to us. By applying for any of
these posts, you consent to the collection, processing (including dissemination
to third parties for purposes of verification of qualifications, credit record,
criminal record, etc), and storage of your personal information for recruitment
and selection-related activities only. The PDARD is committed to safeguarding
your privacy and maintaining the trust you place in us. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to be available for assessments and interviews at a date and
time as determined by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks. The successful candidate will be
subjected to undergo security vetting. PDARD will conduct reference checks
which may include social media profiles of the shortlisted candidates.
Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered during /
after the interview took place, the application will not be considered and in the
unlikely event that the person has been appointed such appointment will be
terminated. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign a performance agreement with the Department.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with.
OTHER POST
POST 27/01 : ASSISTANT AGRICUTURAL PRACTITIONER (X231 POSTS)
(7 Provinces)
Three (3) years fixed term contract (Placement will be done according to the
allocated number of posts in the province).
SALARY : R193 359 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Free state Province Ref No: FSDARD01/2025 (X36 Posts)
Gauteng Province Ref No: GDARD2025/01 (X44 Posts)
KwaZulu Natal Province Ref No: KZNDARD01/2025 (X34 Posts)
Mpumalanga Province Ref No: MPDARD01/2025 (X52 Posts)
Northern Cape Province Ref No: NCDARD01/2025 (X30 Posts)
North-West Province Ref No: NWDARD01/07/2025 (X21 Posts)
Western Cape Province Ref No: WCDARD01/2025 (X14 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year Diploma in Agriculture (NQF level 06 or higher). Compulsory
registration with South African Council for Natural Scientific Professional
(SACNAP). No Experience Required. A valid code B driver’s license.
Knowledge, Competencies and skills: Knowledge of extension methodology,
good communication skills (verbal and written), basic reporting skills, a basic
level of public speaking, understanding of group dynamics and the ability to
communicate with clients and farmers. Applicants must be prepared to
physically visit farmers (farms or projects) within the areas where they will be
placed.
DUTIES : To assist in rendering general agricultural advice to internal and external clients
and to ensure sustainable development. Assist in demonstration of farming
methods, to ensure efficient utilization resources like soil, water, veld, money,
and others. Assist in organizing farmers day and information sessions etc.
Assist in conducting farm visits and use visitation tools for impact assessment
and the development of farm business plans. Source technical and functional
4
input from specialists as required by producers. Assist in providing clients with
information concerning financial assistance. To assist in providing technical
support on all agricultural projects, food security initiatives, and land
development support programs, assist with planning, advice, facilitation of
training and after-care. Assist in identification and mobilize interest groups to
form entities or institution. Assist in organizing meetings to identify training
needs. Assist to facilitate capacity building and provide aftercare. Assist in the
facilitating the development and implementation of business plans. Assist in
the establishment and revival or inactive projects. Assist in establishing and
maintaining home gardens. To assist in promoting a pluralistic approach and
partnerships with relevant agricultural stakeholders and organized agriculture.
Assist in gathering and analyzing relevant information, assist with identification
of problems areas and prioritization thereof, e.g. conduct extension surveys.
Assist to facilitate the establishment of cooperatives, farmer’s associations,
interest groups etc. To assist in the promotion of sustainable production of
agricultural products thus working with Agricultural advisors. Facilitate the
identification of real and perceived needs. Establish structures to address the
needs identified. Assist in building capacity of clients in to enable them to fulfil
their own needs. Assist in providing inputs for the implementation of best
practice, technologies, and latest trends. Support the implementation of
programs. Assist in evaluating the success / effectiveness of production
systems. Provide continuous support to ensure sustainable production.
Perform administrative and related functions. Study technological advances
and best practices to enable him / her to perform the extension function
according to the required standards. Keep relevant database up to date
(including a register of farmers within the area of operation). Compile and
submit monthly and quarterly reports. Comply with the Public Service
prescripts, departmental policies, procedures, technologies, and new
developments to be able to render efficient and effective extension services.
Safe keeping physical assets (where applicable).
ENQUIRIES : Free state Province: Ms NF Ngulube at (079) 228 1042
Gauteng Province: Ms Gugu Nevondo at 072 756 5262
KwaZulu Natal Province: Mr NL Ntshangase Tel No: (033) 343 8133 or Mrs.
RN Ndwandwe Tel No: (033) 343 8498
Mpumalanga Province: Ms. S.P Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. N.E
Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013) 766 6110
Northern Cape Province: Ms L. Phayane Tel No: (067)166 2580
North-West Province: Ms K Modiegi, Tel No: (018) 384 3134
Western Cape Province: Mr JD Aries Tel No: (021) 808 5103
NOTE : Candidates are encouraged to only apply within their own area and must
indicate their province of preference for placement purposes. Preference will
be given to youth, woman and people living with disabilities.
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of a SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicants own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the Department,
following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Please
note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
6
a performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/02 : DIRECTOR: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HR4/25/07/01
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Sheltered Employment Enterprise, Silverton, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in
Marketing Management/ Business Administration/Management/
Communications. Valid Driver’s license. Five (5) years Middle/Senior
Management experience in Marketing/business/sale and Stakeholders
management. Knowledge: Business development, Professional Sales,
Manufacturing environment, Product Development, Project Management,
Marketing campaigns, Financial budgeting and reporting, Policies and
Procedures, Strategy Development and Corporate Governance Skills: Problem
Solving, Initiative, Strong Communication, Consultative, Strategic Planning,
Presentation, Project Management, Time management, Planning and
organizing, Analytical/ judgment and decision making, Negotiation and good
existing network, Assertiveness and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Develop and manage SEE Business Strategy, Develop and Monitor the
implementation of SEE Sales and Customer Relationship Strategies, Develop
and monitor the implementation of Marketing Strategy, Identify and manage
Strategic Alliances and ventures, provide detailed information on the progress
of marketing and sales activities and Manage all the resources of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Pretorius / Ms BP Thwala Tel No: (012) 843 7300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Sub-
directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office. Email: Jobs-
See31@labour.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/03 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Komani, Eastern Cape Province Ref No: HR4/4/1/34 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort, Eastern Cape Province Ref No: HR4/4/1/35 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three years’ (3) National Diploma (NQF6)/ Under graduate Degree (NQF7) in
Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource Management, Labour
Relations, Social Science means.(Developmental Studies, Social Work and
Nursing, Industrial Psychology/Psychology, Qualifications with Research,
Economics, and Statistics as major subjects) Engineering Science(Civil and/or
Construction Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Environmental Health, Analytical Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry,
Explosives Management, Explosives Engineering) Management/Public
Management/Administration, Business Management/Administration,
Operations Management and Project Management, Commerce (General),
Administrative Information Management, Administrative Management, three
(3) years’ legal qualification in LLB/BCOM LAW/BA LAW/B Proc. Five (5) years’
experience of which two (,2) at an Assistant Director level and three (3) years’
functional experience in labour market operations / services delivery
environment. Drivers Licence. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management processes, Asset
Management, All Labour Legislations, Departmental policies and Procedures,
Public Service Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Management,
Communication (both verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Conflict
Management, Presentation, interpersonal, Conflict Management, Leadership
and Project Management.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per the mandate of Department of
Employment and Labour. Represent the Department in key stake-holder
forums including interdepartmental structures of government and
7
municipalities including those dictated by the District Development Model
(DDM) (Intermediate). Implement and manage service delivery improvement
plan. Manage all the resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mbongwana Tel No: (043) 701 3128
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X9005 East
London, 0001 or hand delivers at 3 Hill Street, East London, 5200. E-mail:
Jobs-EC2@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Operations, East London
POST 27/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: WORK-SEEKER REGISTRATION CO-
ORDINATOR REF NO: HR 4/4/8/923
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) in Social Science (Psychology)/ Bachelor of
Arts (Psychology)/ Public Administration/ Public Management/ Business
Administration/ Business Management. Driver’s license. Two (2) years
supervisory experience. Two (2) years functional experience in Public
Employment Services/ Programmes. Knowledge: ILO Conventions. Financial
Management. Human Resource Management. Knowledge management Skills:
Planning and Organizing, Communication, Computer, Analytical, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report writing, Leadership, Information management.
DUTIES : Provide operational and technical support to labour centre for the delivery of
effective work-seeker registration services. Facilitate the provision of IT
infrastructure and implementation of innovations to render effective registration
service. Facilitate the training of ESSA end users (internal and external) on
work-seeker registration service. Manage and analyse reports for work-seeker
registration. Manage operations and personnel resources for work-seeker
registration service for subunit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Maneli Tel No: (051) 505 6203
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs10@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Operations, Free State
POST 27/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/25/08/01HQ
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Human Resources Management/ Labour Relations/ LLB. Valid
driver’s license. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years at
Supervisory level (Senior Admin Officer/ Practitioner) and two (2) years
functional experience in Employment Relations services. Knowledge: Labour
Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act,
Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations, Human Resource
Management Policies, Collective bargaining agreements, Public Service
Commission, Public Service Co-ordination Bargaining Council’s Resolution,
Policy/ guideline formulation, Public Finance Management Act. Skills:
Management, Problem solving, Organization, Leadership, Interpretation of
legislation/ policies, Budgeting/ Financial, Negotiation, Verbal/ written
communication, Presentation.
DUTIES : Finalize all grievances and complaints received from employees in the
department. Process and finalize all misconduct cases in the department.
Coordinate and provide support in terms of representing the Department in all
disputes referred to the Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council and the
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. Develop and manage
information and records of all activities in the employment relations section.
Coordinate the finalization of all the disciplinary cases in the department.
Manage resources of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Makuya Tel No: (012) 309 4130
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. For Attention: Sub-
directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office. Email: Jobs-
HQ11@Labour.gov.za
8
POST 27/06 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR 4/4/4/03/02 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Benoni Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary, including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Reddy Tel No: (011) 747 9609
APPLICATIONS : 47 Empire Road, Park Town, Johannesburg, 2001 Hand deliver at 47 Empire
Road, Park Town for attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng or Email: Jobs-GP9@labour.gov.za
(Benoni Labour Centre)
9
ANNEXURE C
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the
EE Act of 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the department will be taken
into consideration. People with disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore,
preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its EE
targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will be given preference regardless
of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General (DG) of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria 0001, hand
deliver to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets,
Hatfield, Pretoria, or emailed to recruitment8@gcis.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P. Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae only. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG particulars of
all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and
employment contract with the DG within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a top-secret security clearance. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful
candidates will sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be
reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) of 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed
by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes in accordance with POPIA.
OTHER POST
POST 27/07 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WORK-STUDY/ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN
SPECIALIST
Directorate: Human Resource Management
(Twelve 12-Months Contract)
SALARY : R896 463 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package), plus
37% in lieu of benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognised by SAQA, in Public Management
/Administration/Operations Management / Management Services/ Industrial
Psychology/ Human Resource Management or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of five (5) years’ relevant junior management/supervisory experience
in Organisational Design, Job Evaluation, Organisational Development in the
public sector, private sector or both. Key Requirements: In-depth knowledge of
10
organisational design principles, job analysis, and job evaluation (including the
Equate system). Proven experience in managing organisational design and job
evaluation processes. Strong understanding of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, and other relevant legislative frameworks. Experience in
developing and aligning job descriptions and organisational structures.
Proficiency in business process mapping, research, and benchmarking.
Excellent communication (verbal and written), facilitation, and presentation
skills. Strong analytical, policy development, and report writing skills.
Demonstrated leadership, people management, and project management
abilities. Computer literacy (MS Office) and knowledge of the PERSAL system.
Ability to work independently, under pressure, and as part of a team.
Willingness to work overtime and travel when required.
DUTIES : Manage organisational structure development and alignment: Manage the
development and implementation of organisational structure aligned to
Departmental strategies. Conduct structural design investigations and job
analysis, including coordinating research performed by internal analysts and
external service providers. Ensure alignment of organisational structure
development to the Organisational Design Toolkit and directives issued.
Facilitate the mapping of organisational processes and maintenance of the
organisational process database. Facilitate benchmarking and feasibility
studies to ensure structures remain relevant and efficient. Manage
organisational design and related assessment projects, including logistics.
Manage the compilation of job descriptions: Manage the development, timely
review, and updating of job descriptions in line with regulatory requirements.
Ensure the completeness of job descriptions for the Department. Maintain the
Departmental job description database, ensuring accuracy and accessibility.
Manage the job evaluation process: Ensure adherence to established job
evaluation policies, directives and regulatory requirements. Coordinate the
creation of awareness and promotion of job evaluation processes within the
Department. Facilitate job evaluation interviews, ensuring proper
representation and accurate job capturing on the Job Evaluation system.
Develop and implement organisational design policies and strategies that
support a high-performing organisation. Conduct workshops to create
awareness on Organisational Design interventions. Ensure skills transfer.
Facilitate a benchmarking exercise where necessary. Oversee quality
assurance processes before presentation to job evaluation panels. Manage
accurate and timely presentations of job evaluation panels. Administration and
Reporting: Facilitate the development and review of the Job Evaluation Policy.
Manage the accurate capturing of organisational design and job evaluation
data for Departmental reporting. Coordinate logistical arrangements for job
evaluation panels and interviews, ensuring accurate documentation, inclusive
of minutes and record-keeping. Facilitate submission compilation and monitor
the approval of the recommendations. Coordinate the appointment and training
of Job Analysis and panel members. Manage enquiries related to
organisational design and job evaluation. Produce organisational design and
job evaluation reports, inclusive of statistical data. Conduct awareness
workshops and educate employees on organisational design, job description
compliance, and other relevant topics through various communication
channels including workshops and newsflashes. Stakeholder Management:
Establish and maintain strategic partnerships within Departmental Branches
and external stakeholders regarding organisational structure, design, job
descriptions and job evaluation. Facilitate consistent communication and
engagement with key stakeholders to ensure alignment and support for
organisational design initiatives. Represent the Department at National
organisational design structures. Please detail courses passed in the CV as
per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Kwerane Tel No: (012) 473 0407
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
11
ANNEXURE D
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and a fully completed Z83 form will not be considered.
Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates
will be subjected to security vetting to confirm employment, personnel
suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency assessment prior to the
interview. Short-listed candidates must make themselves available for a panel
interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications, and those not
meeting the requirements, will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to EE and Gender target. In
accordance with the DPSA Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development,
Mandatory Training Days and Minimum requirements, this SMS level
appointment will be subject to the completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The
applicants should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
entry certificate and have completed the course before the appointment. The
cost of the pre-entry certificate is at the candidate’s expense. To access the
pre-certificate course, please visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The GTAC is an equal-opportunity
employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and
reasonable accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/08 : DIRECTOR: FINANCE (JOBS FUND PMU) REF NO: G07/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the salary level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Finance, Accounting,
Business, Public Administration or related field. A Postgraduate qualification in
Economic Sciences, Development Studies, Finance or Financial Management
will be advantageous. 6 years of experience in budget preparation and/or
accounting program analysis in a public or governmental setting. 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior management level. Competencies Required:
Organisational Awareness: Refers to the ability to understand and learn the
power relationships in one’s own organisation or other organisations. This
includes the ability to identify the real decision makers; the individuals who can
influence them, and to predict how new events or situations will affect
individuals and groups within the Department. Problem Solving and Analysis:
Understanding a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller
pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It
includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic way;
making systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting
priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal
relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources
Planning: Organises work, sets priorities, and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
12
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Effective
Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively with others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Resilience: The ability to cap one’s
emotions to avoid negative reactions when provoked, when faced with
opposition or hostility, or when working under stress. It also includes the ability
to maintain stamina under continuing stress. Public Finance: Field of
economics that studies government activities and the alternative means of
financing them. Financial Analysis: A project evaluation technique which is
undertaken from the perspective of the individual or agency, rather than having
an economic or system-wide perspective, as used in cost-benefit analysis. It
deals with the costs and revenue flows from the point of view of a firm or
individual; it traces the investment's monetary effects. Economics and/or
Finance: The Science that studies the allocation of resources to satisfy
unlimited wants for capital. Corporate Finance: A specific area of finance
dealing with the financial decisions corporations make and the tools as well as
analysis used to make these decisions. The discipline as a whole may be
divided among long-term and short-term decisions and techniques, with the
primary goal being the enhancing of corporate value by ensuring that return on
capital exceeds cost of capital, without taking excessive financial risks.
Database Management: Knowledge of the principles, procedures, and tools of
data management, such as modelling techniques, data backup, data recovery,
data dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining, data disposal, and data
standardisation processes. Policy Development and Management: Knowledge
of Treasury-related legislation, the legislative process, and public affairs as it
pertains to NT, including the ability to monitor legislation that is of interest to
Treasury. Utilises a wide variety of resources and tools to develop, maintain,
monitor, enforce and provide oversight of policies and regulations. Computer
Literacy: Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently.
Refers to the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and
other applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email).
Project Management: Knowledge of the principles, methods, or tools for
developing, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources,
including monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance.
DUTIES : To provide strategic and operational financial leadership and support for the
Jobs Fund. Strategic Support: Analysis of financial data to provide input into
the Fund strategy. Support fundraising activities for the Fund. Manage the
budget process for the fund, including preparation of submissions and
presentations. Develop Jobs Fund Strategic Business Case and
implementation plans. Provide input to GTAC policies. Revise Jobs Fund
Governance Committee Terms of References. Provide input to the Jobs Fund
Balanced Scorecard. Develop unit operational plans and report on progress.
Contribute to the Jobs Fund learning agenda. Provide input into annual
programme performance and quarterly reviews. Monitor changes to applicable
legislation and ensure Fund compliance with PFMA and other applicable
legislation. Advance Fund Learning Agenda by hosting brown bags. Manage
Jobs Fund Budget: Provide inputs to the budget cycle and oversee all budget-
related processes including preparation of submissions for: Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF); Estimates of National Expenditure (ENE);
Rollover Requests.; Retention of Surplus Funds; Engagements with Public
Finance; Monthly budget reports; quarterly fund transfers and cost recovery
and Ad hoc requests for budget-related information. Manage Jobs Fund
Programme’s operational and grant budget, including the analysis of historical
spending patterns, budget projections, the monthly drawings programme and
annual procurement plan. Manage quarterly transfer of funds. Manage the
processing of grant payments (budget of R300 – R700 million per annum) and
record keeping. Manage the operational expenditure (R56 million – R80 million
per annum). Ensure invoices are complete and are aligned to the agreed-upon
terms before processing. Keep track of service provider payments against
contracted deliverables. Oversee the cost recovery process between National
Treasury and GTAC, as well as the quarterly transfer of fund requests. Manage
the Jobs Fund Risk Register. Manage the Jobs Fund asset register. Develop
financial reports for forecasting, trend analysis, and disseminating results.
Monitor, identify, and communicate over-expenditures to internal clients.
13
Analyse monthly department budgeting and accounting reports to maintain
expenditure controls and submit monthly reports. Plan, organise, coordinate,
schedule and evaluate budgetary activities. Compile and analyse accounting
records and other data to determine the financial resources required to
implement the programme. Direct the preparation of regular and special budget
reports. Examine budget estimates for completeness, accuracy, and
conformance with procedures and regulations. Interpret budget directives and
establish policies for carrying out the mandate. Procurement and Contract
Management: Develop Terms of References for the procurement of Goods &
Services for the Jobs Fund. This includes procurement of service providers for
project evaluations, audits, etc. Serve as a Bid Evaluation Committee member
for Jobs Fund bids (Open Tenders, Requests for Proposals and Requests for
Quotations). Oversee the management and engagement of service providers
on contracting matters. Prepare extensions where required and prepare
quarterly service provider reviews and project closeout documentation.
Formulate Instructions to Perform Work (IPWs) with service providers. Manage
project deliverables, review deliverables and collate input from various
stakeholders. Liaise with service providers and promote a culture of adherence
towards efficiency and effective application of value for money. Formulate the
specifications for the procurement of goods and capital equipment. Reporting:
Provide input into the Annual Performance Plan (APP) of the National Treasury
and report on the achievement of the Fund’s performance indicators. Prepare
and submit Fund inputs to the National Treasury Annual Report. Provide input
for the quarterly Jobs Fund Portfolio Report, which is submitted to the Minister
of Finance. Conduct research and assist with Jobs Fund newsletters and
ministerial highlights. Research, compile, maintain, and update budgetary and
forecast data to provide management with expenditure data, trend analyses
and recommendations. Perform expenditure analysis to inform management of
budget variances, explain causes, and measure impact on department mission
and resources. Internal Audit and AG Report: Conduct walkthroughs to ensure
controls are operating effectively. Prepare responses to audit queries and
requests for information. Conduct investigations on cases of non-compliance
with prescripts. Review audit reports and supervise the implementation and
follow-up of audit findings. Provide advice on financial issues and internal
control solutions to senior management. Ensure proper execution of audits in
the Jobs Fund. Prepare and track audit log for resolution of all matters.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072, Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
14
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Capricorn TVET College)
Capricorn Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College is inviting applications from
suitably qualified candidates to fill the following vacancies
APPLICATIONS : Please forward all applications to: The Principal, Capricorn TVET College,
Private Bag X9674, Polokwane, 0700 or hand deliver to Central Office at 16&18
Market Street, Polokwane, Registry Office or email to
zphokungwana@capricorncollege.edu.za
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025. Applications received after the closing date or faxed
applications will not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed Z83 (effective from 01
January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
any copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae.
Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications received after the closing
date and those that do not comply with the requirements will not be considered.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications and national
certificates (where applicable) evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the posts. The
successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability checks and other
vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of an interview is not
received within three (3) months after the closing date, candidates may regard
their application as unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where
applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/09 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGISTRATION SERVICES REF NO: CCTVET
01/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+ 3 years Degree or Diploma in Business Administration, Public Management
/ Administration / Financial Management / Accounting / Management or
equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’ experience financial/ bursary /Registration
environment. Knowledge of PFMA and Departmental Policies. Knowledge of
basic financial operating systems (ITS, COLTECH etc.) Basic knowledge
financial functions, of practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge of the public service
financial legislations, procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA,
PSR, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Computer literacy. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Administer the overall student registration, render exam and marking center,
render career exhibition services ,provide guidance and testing of students,
with regard to choice of and placement within programmes, maintain and
update database of students enrolled within programmes, administer learning
materials, administer certificates and results statement and resource center,
ensure overall supervision and coordinate student bursary schemes and
financial aid administrative support services for the entire college, ensure the
overall supervision and administration of bursary and financial aid schemes
application processes for the entire college in line with NSFAS guidelines,
funder MOU/SLA and policies, ensure overall supervision and authorization of
disbursement of funds, ensure overall supervision and facilitation of other
financial aid schemes i.e. WRSETA, HWSETA etc, ensure overall supervision,
monitoring, evaluation and maintenance of database of all student’s
applications in terms of Department of Higher Education and Training and
NSFAS requirements, report on all bursary and financial aid allocations to
financial aid committee and other stakeholders, ensure overall supervision and
consolidate report on all bursary and financial aid allocations for the entire
college, supervise human, physical and financial resources.
15
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENTS COUNSELLOR: STUDENT
SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: CCTVET 02/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree in Psychology Plus appropriate post graduate degree in
Psychology, or Equivalent qualification and registered with Professional
Council e.g. HPCSA. 3 – 5 years’ experience in rendering one–on–one or
group counselling to prospective students including disability and LGBTI
students to adjust to learning and address social concern such as stigmatizing
and stereotyping and coping with emotional issues. Facilitation of job seeking
skills, creative thinking, when compiling C.V interviewing skills, goal directed
and ethical behaviour in the world of work, Facilitation of awareness, wellness
events. Must be in possession of a valid drivers` license.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage Career Guidance, Orientation and Induction during
registration, emotional and mental well-being programmes. Facilitate psycho-
social education, counselling and referral for personal and family, trauma and
health problems. Facilitate on course academic support for poor performance.
Coordinate and manage Peer counselling programmes, Health and Wellness,
Special Needs Education (SNE) and Disability Programmes. Facilitate
selection and training of Peer counsellors and supervisors. Facilitate
implementation of Peer Counselling/Education life skills. Develop and
implement Gender Based Violence and femicide Policy and conduct
awareness campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/11 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES REF NO:
CCTVET 03/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree or National Diploma in Project Management/ Marketing or
related qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in Project Management/ Business
development environment. Knowledge building partnerships, innovation,
marketing and entrepreneur insight, Financial Management, mobilising
resources, interpretation of statutes, Public Service ACT, PFMA, Treasury
regulations and other frameworks, business planning, visibility analysis etc.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Partnership management, business opportunities scanning, local and
provincial government relations, research management, management of all
huma, financial and other resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/12 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE MANAGER (OFFICE OF THE
PRINCIPAL) REF NO: CCTVET 04/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: M+3 years Degree or National in Office Management and
Technology/Public Management or related qualification. 3-5 years’ relevant
experience in Administration environment. Knowledge of Public Service
legislations and policies. Knowledge of PSET. Knowledge and understanding
of the TVET/ CET Administration. Understanding of the Higher Education
sector. Understanding of corporate governance. Understanding Cost centre
budgetary, expenditure and cash flow management. Employment Equity Act,
Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act and
any other related legislation. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Oversee the development, implementation and monitoring of policies. Render
administrative/executive support services in the office of the principal. Oversee
and maintain logistics within the office of the principal. Oversee and monitor
the budget in the office of the principal. Establish and implement effective
16
records and document management systems in the office of the principal.
Compile and collate college reports.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: CCTVET 05/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree or National Diploma in Internal Audit or related qualification.
3-5 years’ experience in Internal Audit. Experience in the development of
policies/implementation strategies. Knowledge of the relevant prescripts,
legislation and regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Internal Audit
environment. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license. IIA membership will be
an added advantage.
DUTIES : Preparation and execution of the Internal Audit plan and coordination of
external audit. The provision of secretarial support services to the audit
committee, ensure that processes needed for quality management systems
are established, implemented and maintained. Ensure that all role players and
managers are aware and understand regulatory compliance requirements,
Management of staff development.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/14 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSETS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: CCTVET 06/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree or National Diploma in Accounting/Supply Chain
Management or related qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in Supply Chain
Management, Asset Management or Financial Management. Knowledge of the
PFMA, PPPFA, GRAP, National Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain
Management Framework Act and BBBEE Act. Understanding of the Supply
Chain Management cycle which includes demand, acquisition, logistics, and
disposal and supplier relationship management. Understanding of Asset
Management. National treasury’s Supply Chain Management guidelines.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license. Completed articles will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers. Monitor and review the
allocation of assets to asset custodians. Issuing of asset and inventory list
(room list) list to asset holder. Manage the delivery of assets to the asset holder.
Management and follow up of internal and external audit findings. Compilation
of internal and external audit management action plans. Monthly and quarterly
reporting of asset management and supply chain management. Preparation of
quarterly reports to Financial Committee of Council. Preparation of quarterly
and annual performance review reports. Oversee and review the monitoring of
assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures. Monitoring
assets for compliance with asset management prescripts. Monitoring assets
for physical condition, impairment and useful lives assessments. Monitoring
the performance of asset verification in accordance with GRAP and reporting
periods. Coordinate the safekeeping and distribution of goods. Coordinate the
control of inventory movement. Render management service to the staff.
Ensure completion of performance agreements by all employees in the unit.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: CCTVET 07/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3-year degree or diploma in Logistics/Public Management/ Supply Chain
Management /Facilities Management / Real Estate (NQF level 6) or equivalent
qualification. An OHS certificate will be added advantage. At least 2-3 years’
17
relevant experience in the field. Knowledge of lease agreement negotiations
and BBBE procedure, knowledge of OHSAS 18001, knowledge of project
Management, knowledge of Treasury and PFMA Regulations, knowledge of
vehicle maintenance and services procedures, knowledge of building
maintenance, knowledge of fleet disposal procedure, knowledge and
understating of legislative framework governing the Public Services,
knowledge of traffic laws, monitoring and evaluation. Strong interpersonal and
communication skill (both verbal and written). Negotiation and problem-solving
skills. Well-developed organizational, planning and management skills.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage overall supervision and provision of conducive working environment
services in terms of OHS Act, manage overall supervision and provision of
infrastructure maintenance services, manage overall supervision and the
provision of safety and security services, manage overall supervision and the
provision of transport services, manage overall supervision and provision of
refectory services, manage overall supervision and provision of cleaning
services, manage overall supervision and provision of records services,
supervise human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/16 : SENIOR REGISTRATION OFFICER: INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: CCTVET /10/08/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree or National Diploma in Business Administration, Public
Management/ administration or relevant equivalent qualification as recognized
by SAQA. 3-5 years in administration department, Experience in the post
schooling education and training (PSET) sector will be an added advantage. At
least 2 - 3 years working experience in Student Administration / Data
Management / TVET MIS environment. Knowledge of registry duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, and operate computer Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment;
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Proven report writing and presentation skills in the public sector
and its legislation framework; good communication skills and people
Empowerment; planning and execution; proven computer literacy, including
advanced MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint; proven ability to effectively
manage change; leadership skills. Knowledge of the enrolment verification,
monitoring, screening, and selection of applicants. Knowledge of the
application and registration process of ITS/Coltech systems.
DUTIES : Developing and implementing plans for student enrolment and registration.
Managing the overall registration process. Providing support to campuses
during registration. Monitoring and verifying enrolments. Develop, review and
monitor the implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student
registration, admission, scheduling and records; provide workshops on the
implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student registration,
admission, scheduling and records; develop marketing strategies to attract new
potential students, manage student registration and ensure proper procedure
are followed; develop and review registration document for accuracy, ensure
provisioning of pre-entry support services to student during the registration
process in relation to (financial aid, bursaries, student accommodation),
provide guidance and testing of students, with regard to choice of and
placement within programmes; maintain and update database of students
enrolled within programmes; ensure that student orientate are conducted into
college and campuses, ensure that learner’s information are captured on
Coltech/Information Technology System (ITS). Responsible to develop and
implement plans to ensure compliance with the enrolment standardisation
processes of admission, enrolment, and registration across delivery sites.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/17 : ADMIN OFFICER: ASSETS MANAGEMENT REF NO: CCTVET 11/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
18
REQUIREMENTS : M+ 3 years Degree or Diploma in National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/ Logistics/Public Management or equivalent qualification. 2-3
experience in asset/ supply chain management / logistics services / public
management or relevant experience Knowledge of BAS/LOGIS system.
Knowledge of assets disposal procedure. Knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework governing the Public Services. Knowledge of Assets
Management. Knowledge of Supply Chain Policies. Knowledge of Department
of Higher Education mandate. Computer literacy. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers (Hard Cat (IT and Furniture
register). Monitor and review the allocation of assets to asset holders. Review
the monitoring of assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures.
Promote correct implementation of sound asset management practices.
Administer asset management services. Undertaking logistical support
services Assist with managing of all asset movement within the College.
Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/18 : ADMIN OFFICER (PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES) REF NO: CCTVET
12/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+ 3 years Degree or Diploma in Project Management or Marketing. 3-5 years
working experience in Project Management and or Business development
environment. Knowledge of Building partnerships, Innovation, Marketing and
Entrepreneur insight, Financial Management, Mobilising resources,
Interpretation of statutes. Knowledge of Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury
regulations and other frameworks. Business planning. Visibility analysis.
Knowledge and understanding of administration reporting process and
procedures. Computer literacy. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Ability to perform accurately and methodically under pressure.
DUTIES : Overall management of Partnerships, Business opportunities scanning, Local
and Provincial Government Relations, Research Management. Supervise
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/19 : SECRETARY (DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: CORPORATE SERVICE) REF NO:
CCTVET 13/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3-year degree or diploma in Secretarial, Office Management, Management
Assistant, Human Resource Management, Public Management or equivalent,
any other training/ qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily, 0-3-month experience in Secretarial services. Knowledge of
relevant legislation, prescripts, policies and procedures, Basic knowledge of
financial Management, Record management of documents. Computer literacy
certificate / computer as a subject.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager. Provide a
clerical support service to the manager. Remains up to date regarding
prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to her/his work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/20 : SECRETARY (DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: ACADEMIC SERVICES) REF NO:
CCTVET 14/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3-year degree or diploma in Secretarial, Office Management, Management
Assistant or equivalent, any other training/ qualification that will enable the
person to perform the work satisfactorily, 0-3-month experience in Secretarial
19
services. Knowledge of relevant legislation, prescripts, policies and
procedures, Basic knowledge of financial Management, Record management
of documents. Computer literacy certificate / computer as a subject.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager. Provide a
clerical support service to the manager. Remains up to date regarding
prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to her/his work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/21 : ADMIN CLERK (SHERQ) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Seshego Campus Ref No: CCTVET 15/08/2025
Polokwane Campus Ref No: CCTVET 16/08/2025
Senwabarwana Campus Ref No: CCTVET 17/08/2025
REQUIREMENTS : M+3-year degree or diploma in Recognized three (3) year National Diploma
(NQF 6) in Building Management/Safety, Management/ Construction
Management/ Environmental Health or related qualification, 2-3 years in
Facilities Management, SHERQ and OHS environment, Fire marshal and First
aid certificate will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Act
and Regulations, Occupational Health and Safety Act, immovable Asset
Management Act, Telephone Management system, fire control system and
facilities management system, Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety
Act 85 of 1993 and related Regulations, Knowledge of COIDA, Knowledge of
incident reporting processes and procedures. Computer literacy certificate /
computer as a subject. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the coordination, implementation and monitoring of
compliance on SHERQ programmes. Coordinate the establishment of the OHS
committee. Coordinate OHS-related training and continuous educational
programmes. Participate in identification of hazards and risks at the workplace
and assist in initiating appropriate actions. Implement and monitor SHERQ
management system.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
POST 27/22 : DRIVER REF NO: CCTVET 18/08/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 10 qualification/ standard 8 and valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
7-12 Months relevant experience. Knowledge of relevant legislation, prescripts,
policies and procedures, Procedure for motor maintenance of motor vehicle.
Storage requirement, Messenger services, Routing office support i.e. registry,
Secondary function of making copies, Procedure to operate the motor vehicle,
Procedure to obtain trip authorization, Completion of logbook of the motor
vehicle, writing of fuel consumables, Writing of kilometers services.
DUTIES : Transport of work teams and material/ equipment, Detect and repair minor
mechanicals problems on the vehicles and take steps to have it repaired
(Checked level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres a water), Inspection of the
vehicles / equipment and report defects, Complete vehicle logbook, trip
authorization for the vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Maphutha OM, Phokungwana MZ and Peu KD Tel No: (015) 880 0281/015 230
1800
2025/2027 GRADUATE INTERNSHIP AND WORK INTEGRATED LEARNING PROGRAMME
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship@Dhet.gov.za quoting the
Reference Number as per the advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025, Time 15:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
20
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should NOT have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive CV.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/23 : TEACHING QUALIFICATIONS POLICY REF NO: DHET/UE/2025/01
Branch: University Education
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma;/Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration / Public
Management / Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/24 : INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS REF NO: DHET/UE/2025/02
Branch: University Education
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor of Commerce in International Relations/Office
Administration/Business Informatics, Marketing Management.
N6 certificate in Financial Management/Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
21
POST 27/25 : STUDENT SUPPORT AND SECTOR ENGAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/UE/2025/03
Branch: University Education
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration/Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/26 : GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: DHET/UE/2025/04
Branch: University Education
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma in Public Administration/Public Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/27 : MANAGEMENT SUPPORT AND TRANSFERS REF NO: DHET/UE/2025/05
Branch: University Education
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Financial Administration/Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/28 : HRDC SECRETARIAT REF NO: DHET/HRDC/2025/01
Branch: Human Resource Development Council
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree/Honours/Master’s in Communications Studies/
Research/Project Management/Monitoring and Evaluation/Administrative
Management/Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/29 : LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL REF NO: DHET/CFO/2025/01
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Supply Chain Management/Logistics
Management/ Purchasing Management/ Public Management.
N6 certificate in Public Management
22
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/30 : DEMAND, ACQUISITION & CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/CFO/2025/02
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Supply Chain Management/Public
Procurement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/31 : PUBLIC ENTITIES REF NO: DHET/CFO/2025/03
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Accounting/ Financial Management.
N6 certificate in Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/32 : DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT REF NO: DHET/UE/2025/04
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : BCom degree in Accounting or with accounting
N6 certificate in Financial Management/Public Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/33 : COMPLIANCE UNIT REF NO: DHET/CFO/2025/05
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Internal Audit/Accounting/Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
23
POST 27/34 : FINANCIAL SERVICE REF NO: DHET/CFO/2025/06
Branch: CFO
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : BCom degree in Financial Management/Accounting with Mathematics
N6 certificate in Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/35 : CD INDLELA: ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/01
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Engineering or Civil Diploma /University of Technology Engineering
Diploma /BCom degree /LLB degree /Advanced diploma (Engineering or Civil)
in TVET Education
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/36 : NATIONAL ARTISAN MODERATION BODY (A) REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/02
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed qualified Artisan in the trades of Automotive mechanic, Fitting and
Turning, Plumbing and Millwright.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/37 : NATIONAL ARTISAN MODERATION BODY REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/03
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Office Management
X3
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/38 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT (HRM) REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/04
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
24
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Human Resource
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/39 : CD INDLELA: NADSC REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/05
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Programmer (Sql) X2/Diploma in Networking X1/N6 Engineering or Civil
diploma X4
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/40 : CD INDLELA: WSSA REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/06
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in marketing, Communications or Public Relations X1/
Diploma in Logistics X1/Diploma in Supply Finance, Chain Management, or
Project Management X1/Bachelor’s degree in Psychology or Higher certificate
in Career Information X2/Degree or Diploma in Quality Management X1
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/41 : NATIONAL SKILLS AUTHORITY REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/13
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Financial Management/Financial Accounting.
N6 certificate in Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/42 : NATIONAL SKILLS AUTHORITY REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/09
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Social Science/Development Studies/Public
Administration/Management.
N6 certificate in Public Management/Public Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
25
POST 27/43 : NATIONAL SKILLS AUTHORITY REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/14
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Corporate Governance/Legal/Compliance
Environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/44 : SETA COORDINATION REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/15
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information System/Information Technology/
Computer Science/Information Management System.
N6 certificate in Public Administration/Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/45 : SETA SUPPORT AND LEARNERSHIPS REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/16
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Social Science/Humanities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/46 : SETA SUPPORT AND LEARNERSHIPS REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/13
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/Office
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/47 : SETA SUPPORT AND LEARNERSHIPS REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/17
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in training and development.
26
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/48 : SETA SUPPORT AND LEARNERSHIPS REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/16
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/
Business Administration/Management of Training/Human Resource
Management/ Human resource Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/49 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/01
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Management Assistant/Administration/
Public Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/50 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/02
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Management Services/Operations Management.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/51 : INTERNAL COMMUNICATION & CLIENT SERVICES REF NO:
DHET/CS/2025/03
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Public Relations.
N6 certificate in Public Relations
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
27
POST 27/52 : TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT UNIT REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/04
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Public Administration/Human
Resource Management and Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/53 : PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO:
DHET/CS/2025/05
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Human Resource Management/Public
Management.
N6 certificate in Human Resource Management/Public Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/54 : HRM&D: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/06
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/55 : HRM&D: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/07
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Public Administration/Human
Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/56 : HRM&A: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/08
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
28
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Human Resource Management/Public
Administration/Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/57 : RISK, FRAUD, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/09
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration/Human Resource
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/58 : RISK, FRAUD, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/10
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/59 : RISK, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY AND FRAUD PREVENTION REF NO:
DHET/CS/2025/11
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Forensic Investigation/Law/
Accounting/Auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/60 : AFRICA AND MIDDLE EASTERN PARTNERSHIP REF NO:
DHET/PPS/2025/01
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in International Relations/Public Management/Political
Science.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
29
POST 27/61 : MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/02
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration/Office
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/62 : HETMIS PROJECT REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/03
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree Information Technology/Computer
Science.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/63 : MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/05
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Statistics
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/64 : POLICY, RESEARCH AND EVALUATION REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/06
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Arts with Honours/Master’s in Policy Studies/Social Science/
Development Studies/Public Management and Governance/Monitoring and
Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/65 : PLANNING, POLICY AND STRATEGY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/07
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Public Management/Legislation and Policy Development/Social
Sciences.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
30
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/66 : POLICY, PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
DHET/PPS/2025/08
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/Any
Equivalent Qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/67 : LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/09
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Law/LLB.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/68 : CD: SOCIAL INCLUSION AND QUALITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/10
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/69 : CD: SOCIAL INCLUSION AND QUALITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/11
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma in Office Administration/Public Management/Office
Management and Technology.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/70 : OPEN LEARNING REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/012
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Communication Studies/Media Studies.
31
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/71 : OPEN LEARNING REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/13
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology/Computer Sciences.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/72 : SOCIAL INCLUSION AND EQUITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/14
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Gender Studies/Social Sciences with a
passed subject in Transformation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/73 : SOCIAL INCLUSION AND EQUITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/15
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Arts in Social Transformation Studies/Public Administration
majored in Gender/Disability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/74 : SOCIAL INCLUSION AND EQUITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/16
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Financial Management/
Administration Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
32
POST 27/75 : SOCIAL INCLUSION AND EQUITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/17
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Social Sciences/Public Policy/Sociology/Developmental Studies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/76 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/18
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Administration/Human Resource Management/
Financial Management/Auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/77 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/19
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Marketing/Communication.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/78 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/20
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Human Resource Development/Training and Development
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/79 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/21
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor of Science in Information Technology/Information
Systems/Software Engineering
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
33
POST 27/80 : COLLEGE SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/22
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Construction Project Management
N6 certificate in Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/81 : SYSTEM MONITORING AND LABOUR MARKET INTELLIGENCE REF NO:
DHET/PPS/2025/23
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree/Bachelor of Science in Renewable
Energy/Environmental Science/Economics/Engineering (Mechanical/
Chemical/ Electrical)/Statistics/Office Administration/Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/82 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/24
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Monitoring and Evaluation
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/83 : INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/25
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : BA degree in International Relations/Political Science/Developmental Studies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/84 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES, SOCIAL INCLUSION, EQUITY,
ACCESS AND QUALITY REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/26
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
34
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Marketing Management/Public
Relations/Graphic Design
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/85 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/27
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration/Public Policy/Development Studies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/86 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/28
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Social Science/Psychology.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/87 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/29
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Project Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/88 : CAREER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/30
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Science in Psychology/
Information Management/Knowledge Management/Information Science.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/89 : SOCIAL INCLUSION, EQUITY, ACCESS & QUALITY REF NO:
DHET/PPS/2025/31
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
35
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Management Assistant/Office Management and
Technology. N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/90 : OFFICE OF THE DDG: TVET BRANCH REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/01
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Management Assistant/Public Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/91 : TVET MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/02
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Office Administration/
Business Administration/LLB. N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel. No: 012 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel. No: 012 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza, Tel. No: 012 312 5192
POST 27/92 : TVET MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/03
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Monitoring and Evaluation/Information Science/
Information Management/Information Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/93 : TVET CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/04
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/
Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
36
POST 27/94 : CD: PROGRAMMES AND QUALIFICATION REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/05
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma in Public Administration/Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/95 : LECTURER DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/06
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Project Management/Information Technology/
Public Management. N6 certificate in Management Assistant
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/96 : NW AND MPUMALANGA REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/07
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Standerton Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Financial Management/Human Resource
Management. N6 Certificate in Human Resource Management/Public
Management/ Management Assistant
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/97 : GAUTENG AND FREE STATE TVET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/08
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Johannesburg Marshall Town
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/Office
Management/Information Technology. N6 certificate in Management
Assistant/Public Management/Human Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
37
POST 27/98 : KWAZULU NATAL TVET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/09
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Accounting/Financial Management/Labour Law/
Industrial Relations/Labour Relations/LLB/Human Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/99 : EASTERN CAPE TVET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/10
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Financial Management/
Labour Relations/Human Resource Management/Monitoring and Evaluation
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/100 : FINANCIAL PLANNING REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/12
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Economics/Policy Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/101 : INSTITUTIONAL FUNDING REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/13
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Economics/Public Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/102 : TVET COLLEGE BUDGET PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/14
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Financial Management/Accounting/Auditing/
Public Administration/Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
38
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/103 : SPECIAL PROJECT REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/15
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/
Business Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/104 : CD: TVET SYSTEM PLANNING AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT REF NO:
DHET/TVET/2025/16
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Project Management/Business Administration/
Public Administration/Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/105 : PRIVATE COLLEGES REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/17
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in law/LLB
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/106 : FINANCIAL PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT REF NO: DHET/CET-
HO/2025/01
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Office Administration/Management
Assistant/Administrative Management/Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
39
POST 27/107 : CET COLLEGE INSTITUTIONAL FUNDING REF NO: DHET/CET-
HO/2025/02
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Bachelor’s degree/Advance Diploma in Public
Administration/Public Policy/ Developmental Studies/Economics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/108 : CET COLLEGE BUDGET PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/CET-HO/2025/03
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/B-Tech/Bachelor of Commerce in Financial Accounting/
Financial Management/ Cost and Management Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/109 : CD: ETDA (PARTNERSHIP & LINKAGES, PROGRAMMES CURRICULUM
DEVELOPMENT & SUPPORT, STUDENT RESOURCING & SUPPORT,
LECTURER DEVELOPMENT & SUPPORT) REF NO: DHET/CET-
HO/2025/04
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Project Management with Research, Public
Management, Public Administration/Public Management/Financial
Management/Office Management.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/110 : INSTITUTIONAL PLANNING SUPPORT REF NO: DHET/CET-HO/2025/05
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Office Management and Technology/Office
Administration/Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
40
POST 27/111 : MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: DHET/CET-
HO/2025/06
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/112 : OFFICE OF THE DDG: TVET BRANCH REF NO: DHET/CET-HO/2025/07
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Management/Public Administration/ Project
Management, Development Studies/Commerce/Infrastructure Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/113 : MPUMALANGA CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/CET-RO/2025/01
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Office Administration.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/114 : LIMPOPO CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/CET-RO/2025/02
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Labour Law, Labour Relations, Information
Technology/Computer Sciences/Financial Management/Accounting/Public
Relations/Marketing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/115 : FREE STATE CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/CET-RO/2025/03
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Mangaung
41
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Information Technology.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant/Office Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/116 : KWAZULU NATAL CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/CET-
RO/2025/04
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Public Management / Office
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/117 : NORTH-WEST AND MPUMALANGA CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DHET/CET-RO/2025/05
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Management Assistant.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/118 : NORTH-WEST AND MPUMALANGA CET REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DHET/CET-RO/2025/06
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Management Assistant.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 581
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/119 : NORTHERN CAPE AND WESTERN CAPE CET RIGIONAL OFFICE REF
NO: DHET/CET-RO/2025/07
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Human Resource Management/Management
Assistant/Public Management/Public Administration.
42
N6 certificate in Human Resource Management/Management Assistant/ Public
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/120 : NORTHWEST CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/01
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Office Administration. N6
certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/121 : MPUMALANGA CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/02
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Silabus
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/Office
Management/Human Resource Management/Accounting Management.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/122 : WESTERN CAPE CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/03
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Bachelor of Commerce/Bachelor’s degree in Marketing/
Information Technology/Information system/Business science in Marketing/
Business Sciences in Organisational Psychology/Human Resource
Management/Public Management/Labour Relations/Internal Audit.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/123 : GAUTENG CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/04
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Ormonde
43
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Human Resource Management/Information
Technology/Supply Chain Management/Financial Management/Accounting/
Public Administration.
N6 certification in Management Assistant/Human Resource Management/
Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/124 : KWAZULU NATAL CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/05
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : eThekwini
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Bachelor’s degree in Financial Accounting/Internal Audit/
Public Finance/Cost & Management Accounting/Public Management and
Technology/Marketing/ Development Studies/Management Assistant/Human
Resource Management/Information Technology/Labour Law/Business
Management.
N6 certificate in Financial Management/Public Management/Management
Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/125 : NORTHWEST CET COLLEGE REF. NO: DHET/CETC/2025/06
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Brits
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Human Resource Management/Marketing
Management/Management Assistant/Information Communication Technology/
Computer Sciences.
N6 certificate in Management Assistant
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/126 : TEACHING QUALIFICATIONS POLICY REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/07
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology/Office Administration/
Human Resource Management/Financial Management/Financial Accounting/
Marketing.
N6 certificate in Marketing Management/Human Resource Management/
Financial Management/ Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
44
POST 27/127 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT (AUXILLIARY SERVICES) REF NO:
DHET/SD/2025/07
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Management Assistant/Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/128 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT (SECURITY SUPPORT SERVICES)
REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/08
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Security Management or related.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/129 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT (MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
SERVICES) REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/09
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Horticulture
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/130 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT (MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
SERVICES) REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/010
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Bricklaying, Electrical, Plumbing and Welding.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/131 : CD INDLELA: ARPL & ASSESSMENT REF NO: DHET/SD/2025/11
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed Qualified Artisan in Refrigeration, Fitting and Turning,
Instrumentation and Painter and Decorator.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
45
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/132 : CD INDLELA: ARPL AND ASSESSMENT (REGISTRATION) REF NO:
DHET/SD/2025/12
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Olifantsfontein
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Office Management and Technology /Public Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/133 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR: SETA SUPPORT AND LEARNERSHIPS REF
NO: DHET/SD/2025/18
Branch: Skills Development
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Public Administration/Public Management/Office
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/134 : MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM REF NO: DHET/PPS/2025/04
Branch: Planning, Policy and Strategy
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 3659.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
POST 27/135 : INSTITUTIONAL FUNDING REF NO: DHET/TVET/2025/11
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
WIL Student
STIPEND : R6 659.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Ndzimela Tel No: (012) 312 5818
Ms N. Ndzantsi Tel No: (012) 312 5343
Ms N. Khoza Tel No: (012) 312 5192
46
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/136 : DIRECTOR: FINANCE REF NO: 2025/61/GP
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Financial Accounting /Financial Management/ Internal Audit; 5 years
experience at middle/senior management level in financial management
environment; Nyukela Certificate (Certificate for Entry into the Senior
Management Service from the National School of Government); Knowledge of
budget management and financial management principles; Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service:
Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance Management Act.
Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; Programme and
project management; Financial management; Change management;
Knowledge management; service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving
and analysis; People management and empowerment; Client orientation and
customer focus; Communication; Honesty and integrity; Personal attributes.
DUTIES Key Performance Areas: Manage the development of budget; Manage the
expenditure patterns; Manage and provide asset management services;
47
Manage and provide supply chain services; Manage and provide Third Party
Funds (TPF) services; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RR Moabelo Tel No:(011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/137 : SENIOR FAMILY ADVOCATE: LP9 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidates will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/33/MP (X1 Post)
Family Advocate Ref No: 2025/63/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or 4-year recognised legal qualification; At least eight (8) years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admission as an Advocate;
A valid driver’s licence; Knowledge of applicable Standard Operation
Procedures (SOP’s); Proven track record of previous managerial experience
in a legal environment. Skills and Competencies: Strategic Capability and
leadership, Project and Programme management, Financial management,
Change management, Knowledge management, Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI); Problem solving and analysis, Diversity management, Client Orientation
and Customer focus, Communication, Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the implementation and monitoring of the
delivery of multi-disciplinary family Advocate services for children. Manage and
monitor the provisioning of forensic and risk social work services. Manage,
monitor and implement the provisions of the Hague Convention on Civil
aspects of International Child Abduction. Manage and monitor provision of
Forensic Social Work services. Monitor and support organizational
performance of the Family Advocate services. Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Mr DS Nkosi at (083) 299 4906
Gauteng: Ms. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR 7th Floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number Note: People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/138 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER (GRADE 1 – 2) REF NO: 2025/64/GP
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 360 185 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Worker; A minimum of 10 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with
the SACSSP; Registration with the SACSSP as a Social Worker. Skills and
Competencies: Legal Research; Legal Drafting; Applied Strategic Thinking;
Applied Technology; Budgeting and Financial Management; Communication
and Information Management; Continuous Improvement; Citizen Focus and
Responsiveness; Developing Others; Diversity Management; Impact and
Influence; Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems;
Networking and Building Bonds; Planning and Organizing; Problem Solving
and Decision Making; Team Leadership., Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage child focus forensic assessment services,
Manage risk related to children’s care environment and or contracts, Manage
the provision of Experts witness evidence in Courts of Law; Oversee
48
implementation and monitoring operational performance of forensic social work
services; Manage the Conduct Appropriate Disputes Resolutions, Compile and
register Parental Responsibilities and Rights (PRR) and parenting Plans;
Provide generic supervisory and management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 or 7th Floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 27/139 : FAMILY ADVOCATE LP7-LP8 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidates will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: KwaMhlanga Ref No: 2025/31/MP
Family Advocate: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/32/MP
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized 4-year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admittance as an Advocate;
A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills
(verbal and written); Litigation and Advocacy skills; Legal research and drafting;
Dispute resolution; Case flow management and Mediation.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family
Advocate in accordance with relevant legislation; Endorse settlement
agreements or commenting thereon; Institute and conduct enquires to
ascertain the best interest of the minor child by means of ADR procedures and
evaluation; Deal with Hague matters and all relevant circuit courts within the
province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
floor building, Nelspruit 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/140 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AREA COURT MANAGER REF NO: 25/41/FS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Xhariep District
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration / Public Management / Legal or
equivalent qualification; At least 3 years’ relevant experience at managerial
(Assistant Director) level; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of Financial Management and Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA); Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds)
and Vote Accounts; Experience in the Court Environment will be an added
advantage; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic
thinking; Planning and organizing; Problem solving and decision making;
Project management; Managing Interpersonal relationship; Communication
and information Management; Developing others; Diversity Management;
Conflict management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage case-flow management; Manage the
financial resources of the Cluster; Manage office facilities, risk and security;
Manage Supply Chain and Assets services; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili at (073) 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 27/141 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5 - LP6) (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R630 630 – R1 450 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/29/GP (X3 Posts)
49
State Attorney: Pretoria Ref No: 2025/30/GP (X3 Posts)
State Attorney: Durban Ref No: 25/07/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; At least 4 years appropriate
post qualification legal/litigation experience; Admittance as an Attorney; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, office management, accounting system
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and
transformation objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa;
Conveyancing experience will be an added advantage; A valid driver’s licence.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting;
Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Communication skills (written and
verbal); Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal in the
High Court, Magistrates Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims,
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, Tax and Tax tribunals;
Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft and/or settle all types of arrangements
on behalf of various clients; Attend to liquidation and insolvency, queries,
conveyancing and notarial services; Deal with all forms of arbitration, including
inter-departmental arbitration; Register trust and debt collection; Provide
effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/142 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Western Cape Ref No. 34/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga Provincial Office Ref No: 2025/40/MP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or equivalent qualification; At least 8 years appropriate post
qualification legal/ litigation experience; A valid driver’s license; Knowledge of
the South African Legal System; Supervisory/management experience will be
an added advantage; Knowledge of the South African Legal System, Legal
Practices and related spheres with specific reference in civil litigation and the
law of contract; Knowledge of criminal procedure, practices and court rules;
Knowledge of the Constitution, Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain
Organs of State Act; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions and the State Liability Act;
Knowledge and experience of the judicial system and functions of the court;
Knowledge and experience in office administration. Skills and Competencies:
Legal Research; Legal drafting; Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology;
Budgeting and financial management; Communication and Information
management; Computer literacy; Continuous improvement; Citizen Focus and
Responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and Influence; Managing
Interpersonal Conflict; Planning and organising; Problem solving and decision
making; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate and conduct outreach training, and
awareness on various pieces of legislations, constitutional imperatives, and
legal policy frameworks; Manage and administer the establishment of
specialised courts and matters pertaining to vulnerable persons; Manage and
coordinate corporate legal support and loss control in the province; Manage
and coordinate quasi-judicial and statutory appointment matters; Manage
human, finance, and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Mpumalanga: Mr R DS Nkosi at 083 299 4906
50
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/143 : COURT MANAGER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mashishing Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/39/MP (X1 Post)
Nkomazi Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/19/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office, Ixopo Ref No: 25/09/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration /Management/Law/Legal studies
or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in court management environment of which 2 years should be as a
supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA);
Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Accounts; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Planning and
organizing; Problem solving; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human
resource, risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business
planning processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile an analyse court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer
service improvements strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Ms. NC Maseko: Tel No: 083 2849056
Kwazulu-Natal: Ms NF Nkosi Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/144 : LECTURER: CIVIL AND FAMILY LAW REF NO: 25/81/IDS
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Brigitte Mabandla Justice College
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Law/LLB; A minimum
of 3 years’ experience in lecturing / formal tutoring in Law environment in
academia; Knowledge and understanding of South African higher education
systems and regulatory framework, Teaching and Learning theory
interventions, Corporate Governance of Justice College Policy Framework and
Justice System, Research and Curriculum Development; Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act,
Government initiatives and decisions; Ability to provide student support
services work with and learn more about digitalized academic platforms. Skills
51
and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; Project and
programme management; Financial management; Knowledge management;
Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving and analysis; People
management and empowerment; Communication (verbal and written) skills;
Computer literacy (MS Office); Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate teaching and education for civil and family
law programmes; Facilitate and provide student support in civil and family law
programmes; Facilitate and conduct academic research and development;
Collaborate and maintain partnerships with relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M P Leshilo Tel No: (012) 357 8240
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 27/145 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 -2 REF NO: 2025/57/GP (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 – R893 949 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor Degree in Social Work; Registration with the SACSSP as a Social
Worker; A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Knowledge of the South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State, the State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the
Treasury Regulations, the Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development Financial Instructions and the State Liability Act; Knowledge and
experience in office administration. Skills and Competencies: Legal Research;
Legal drafting; Applied strategic thinking; Applying technology; Budgeting and
financial management; Communication and Information management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing
others; Diversity management; Impact and Influence; Managing interpersonal
Conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Problem solving;
Decision making; Team Leadership.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee child focus forensic assessment services;
Supervise risk related to children’s care environment and or contracts;
Supervise the provision of Experts witness evidence in Courts of Law, oversee
implementation and monitoring the operational performance of forensic social
work services, Conduct Appropriate Disputes Resolutions, Compile and
register Parental Responsibilities and Rights (PRR) and parenting Plans,
Provide generic supervisory and management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 or 7th Floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 27/146 : OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: 2025/38/MP
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of The State Attorney: Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 years National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/ Human
Resources Management/ Administration or Business Administration at NQF-
Level 6; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Administration Environment;
Knowledge of HR matters and its policies, framework; Procurement directives
and procedures, Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution and the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Skills and Competencies;
Applied Strategic Thinking, Applying Technology; Budgeting and Financial
Management; Communication and information Management; Continuous
Improvement; Citizen Focus and Responsiveness; Developing Others; Impact
52
and influence; Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems;
Planning and Organising; Decision Making; Project Management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage procurement and Finance of goods and
services; Manage documents for registry support services; Undertake policy or
line function tasks as required; Coordinate external strategic alliances between
the office and other stakeholders; Manage general support and resources
services; Manage human resource services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank Centre, 4th
floor building, Nelspruit 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 27/147 : CLUSTER MANAGER: COURT INTERPRETING REF NO: 2025/21/MP
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District: Eerstehoek Magistrate's Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12; National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF level 5 or
any other relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 5; Proficiency in English
and two or more indigenous languages; 6 years’ experience as a Court
Interpreter of which 3 years should be at a supervisory level; A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Listening skills; Time management;
Analytical thinking; Problem solving; Planning and organizing; Confidentiality;
Ability to work under pressure and Art of interpreting.
DUTIES : Manage the cluster legal interpreting and language services; Develop and
implement the legal interpreting and language services business plan for the
cluster; Manage both human and non human resources of legal interpreting
and language services; Manage training and development of court interpreters;
Manage compliance of the code of conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KN Zwane Tel No: (060) 632 2006
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre, 4th
floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 27/148 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT REF
NO:25/09/FS
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Security Management and registered with PSIRA; A minimum of years’
experience in Security Management at a supervisory level ; Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Minimum Physical
Security Standards(MPSS) and Security Management frameworks and
guidelines Understanding of Security Management related legislation and
policies, public service concepts, processes, methodologies and terminology;
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks:
Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance Management Act,
Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel); Project management skills; Presentation skills; Ability to work under
pressure; Administrative and organizational skills; Sound interpersonal
relations; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the provision of security operations;
Facilitate security risk management assessments; Monitor security contract
performance; Facilitate the provision of close protection, special events and
cash-in- transit services; Facilitate the provision of information security and
vetting services; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili Tel No: (073) 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
53
POST 27/149 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Delmas Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/17/MP (X1 Post)
Mbombela Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/18/MP (X1 Post)
White River (Masoyi) Magistrate Office: Ref No: 2025/16/MP (X1 Post)
Madadeni Magistrate Courts Ref No: 25/15/KZN (X1 Post)
Emgwenya Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/49/MP (X1 Post)
Middelburg Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/48/MP (X1 Post)
Tonga (Kanyamazane) Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/42/MP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor Degree in Public Administration /
Public Management or equivalent; 3 years administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Knowledge
of Financial Management (Vote and Trust Account); Departmental Financial
Instructions, BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and Competencies: People
Management; Computer Literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resources of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning process; Manage the Criminal and
Civil Court Administration Section and other sections related to Family Court
and Supply Chain; Manage Third Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office;
Co-ordinate, Manage and administer support services to Case Flow
Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane at (060) 532 2006
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms NF Nkosi Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
Centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/150 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP3-LP4) (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R377 523 – R1 032 906 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Johannesburg Ref No 2025/09/GP (X2 Posts)
State Attorney: Pretoria Ref No 2025/10/GP (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or 4 year recognized legal qualification; At least 2 years
appropriate post qualification legal/litigation experience; Admission as an
Attorney; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy;
Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management;
Strategic and conceptual orientation; Communication skills (written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts,
Magistrate Courts, Labour Courts, Land Claims Courts and CCMA; Draft and
/or settle all types of agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render legal
opinions and advice; Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-
departmental arbitration and debt collection.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a current
certificate of good standing from the relevant law Society, along with a service
54
record. Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 27/151 : FAMILY COUNSELLOR/SOCIAL WORKER (GR1 – GR4) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 – R725 754 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Kwa-Mhlanga Magistrate Office Ref No: 2025/30/MP (X1
Post)
Family Advocate, Durban Ref No: 25/21/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Social Workers or equivalent qualification, Appropriate
experience in Social Worker after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Registration with SA Council for Social Service Profession
(SACSSP), Knowledge and experience in Mediating, Court experience in
rendering expert evidence; Knowledge and application of Family Law, including
Mediation in certain Divorce Matters Act. Children’s Act, Maintenance Act and
Domestic Act (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction);
A valid driver’s license and willing to travel extensively within the province.
Skills and Competencies: Communication (written and verbal) skills, Computer
literacy (MS Word), Mediation, Interviewing, Evaluation and Report writing
skills, Diversity and Conflict management and Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct inquiries to ascertain the best interest of the
minor children involved by means of mediation and /or evaluation as per
relevant legislation. Evaluate information and compile forensic court reports,
Act as expert witness for the Family Advocate in Court; ensure proper case
flow administration, Travel to townships and rural areas to conduct enquires,
interview parties and source references in Family Law disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane at (060) 532 2006
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quote the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Candidates whose name appears on Part B of the Child Protection Register as
mandated by the Section 123 (5) of the Children’s Act, 2005 need not to apply.
Shortlisted applicants will be required to submit proof of registration with
SACSSP. Note: Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the
relevant reference number.
POST 27/152 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
2025/15/MP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. Successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience required;
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, DPSA Directives, Resolutions and policies. Skills and
Competencies: Computer skills; Problem solving skills, Planning and
organizing skills; Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle Human Resource administration enquiries;
Prepare reports on Human Resource administration issues and statistics;
Process Termination of Services; Recommend (approve) transactions on
PERSAL according to delegations; Implement conditions of service and service
benefits; (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on Duty, Long Service Recognition,
overtime, resettlement benefits, Pension, allowances etc.); Supervise and
undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance of Human
Resource administration practices.
ENQUIRIES Ms KN Zwane at (060) 532 2006
55
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre, 4th
floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 27/153 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of The Family Advocate: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/27/MP (X1 Post)
Emlazi Magistrate Court Ref No: 25/18/KZN (X1 Post)
Office of the Family Advocate, Vosman Ref No: 2025/28/MP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Good communication
(written and verbal} skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning and
Organizing skill; Ability to work under pressure; Problem solving skills;
Customer service; Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical services within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane Tel No: (060) 532 2006
Kwazulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/154 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 2025/62/GP (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 (NQF level 4); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in archives and
records management. Knowledge and understanding of Promotion of Access
to Information Act, 2000 (Act No. 2 of 2000); PAIA, National Archive Act.
Proficiency in electronic document management systems (EDMS) and relevant
software. Knowledge of records management strategy and policy; paper-based
records management; electronic records management systems; document
management. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks. Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines,
prescripts, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury
Regulations, the Public Finance Management Act. Skills and Competencies:
Concern for others; Creative thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision
making; Diversity citizenship; Problem analysis; Self-management; Team
membership; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and provide registry counter services;
Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence; Supervise
and render an effective filing and record management service; Supervise the
operation and operate office machines in relation the registry function;
Supervise the processing and process documents for archiving and/disposal;
Render generic management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 Or Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
56
POST 27/155 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Provincial Office Ref No: 2025/35/MP (X1 Post)
Master of the High Court: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: 2025/19/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three years relevant experience;
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and Budget Management,
Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, Treasury Regulations,
Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act (PPPFA) and Public Audit Act. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy
(MS Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel, etc) Research and analytical skills;
Monitoring, Evaluation and report writing skills; Accuracy and attention to detail;
Good communication (verbal and written) skills; Presentation and facilitation
skills
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render financial accounting
transactions; Supervise and perform salary administration support services;
Supervise and perform bookkeeping support services; Render a budget
support service; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Mr LT Mndebele at (081) 030 8037
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N F Nkosi Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quote the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/156 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Kempton Park Ref No 2025/46/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Meyerton Ref No 2025/47/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Oberholzer Ref No: 2025/48/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Protea Ref No: 2025/49/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Durban Ref No: 25/17/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages and A Minimum of three years
practical experience in court interpreting; OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; and A valid driver’s license; Proficiency in
English and in two or more indigenous languages. Language proficiency:
Magistrate Kempton Park: English, Afrikaans, IsiZulu, Sesotho; Magistrate
Meyerton: English, Sesotho, IsiZulu; Magistrate Oberholzer: English,
Afrikaans, Setswana/IsiXhosa/ IsiZulu; Magistrate Protea: English, Afrikaans,
IsiXhosa; Magistrate: Durban: IsiXhosa and IsiZulu. Skills and Competencies:
Good communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literacy (Ms Word
and Excel); Administrative and organizational skills; Sound interpersonal
relations; Ability to work under pressure; Time management; Problem solving;
Analytical thinking; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render interpreting services. Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Perform specific line and administrative support functions;
Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
57
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 27/157 : ASSISTANT MASTER (MR3- MR5) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The unsuccessful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/23/MP
Master of The High Court: Middleburg Ref No: 2025/24/MP
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or four (4) year recognized legal qualification; At least 2 years
appropriate post qualification legal experience; Knowledge of the
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency
Act, Companies Act, Close Corporations Act, Trust Property Control Act and
other relevant legislation; Experience in the functional field and services
provided by Master’s of the High Court. Skills and Competencies: Estate
duties; Case flow management; Trust; Administration of estates; Legal
research and drafting; Planning and organizing; Dispute Resolution; Time
management; Communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
independently in a highly pressurized environment, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the administration of guardian’s funds and
operation; Manage the administration of deceased estate; Manage the
administration of insolvent estate; Manage administration of trust and
curatorship’s; Administer service points operations; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/158 : ASSISTANT MASTER (MR1-MR5) REF NO: 50/2025/M/WC (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or four years’ recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of the
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency
Act, Companies Act, Close Corporations Act, Trust Property Control Act and
other relevant legislation; Experience in the functional field and services
provided by Master of the High Court. Skills and Competencies: Estate duties;
Case flow management; Trust; Legal research and drafting; Planning and
organizing; Dispute resolution; Time management; Communication skills;
Ability to work under pressure and independently in a highly pressurized
environment; Computer literacy.
DUTUEIS : Key Performance Areas: Managing the administration of Deceased Estates,
Insolvent Estates, Trust and Curatorship; Provide strategic direction to the
office; Monitor the implementation of departmental policy, procedures and
legislations; Manage the operations regarding the Guardian’s Fund and
resources in the office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Dyusha Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 27/159 : ESTATE CONTROLLER (EC1- EC4) (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of the High Court: Western Cape Ref No:51/2025/M/WC (X2 Posts)
58
Master of the High Court, Durban Ref No: 25/22/KZN (X4 Posts)
Master of The High Court: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/22/MP (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or four year recognized legal qualification. Skills and
Competencies: Legal research and drafting; Case flow management; Trust;
Estate duties; Dispute resolution; Communication skills (verbal and written);
Problem solving; Customer focus; Attention to detail; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer Deceased Estates, Insolvent Estates,
Curatorship; Trust and all aspects related to the administration thereof;
Determine and assess Estate duties in terms of the Estate Duties Act; Conduct
research and draft legal documents; Render administrative function of the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Mr S Dyusha Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Kwazulu-Natal: Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No (031) 372 3000
Mpumalanga: Ms NC Maseko Tel No: 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/160 : ADMINISTRATION CLERKS (X60 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Cape Town, Ref No: 19/2025/WC (X4 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Kuilsriver, Ref No: 20/2025/WC (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Worcester, Ref No: 21/2025/WC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office Mossel Bay, Ref No: 22/2025/WC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Paarl, Ref No: 23/2025/WC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Khayelitsha, Ref No: 24/2025/WC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Van Rhynsdorp, Ref No: 26/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Bellville, Ref No: 27/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Grabouw, Ref No: 28/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Wynberg, Ref No: 29/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Simonstown, Ref No: 30/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Balfour, Ref No: 2025/11/MP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Vosman, Ref No: 2025/09/MP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: White River, Ref No: 2025/08/MP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Mbibana, Ref No: 2025/47/MP (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: KwaMhlanga, Ref No: 2025/26/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Emakhazeni, Ref No: 2025/05/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Courts: Durban: Ref No: 24/27/KZN (5 Posts)
Magistrate Court: Ntuzuma: Ref No: 24/28/KZN (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Court: New Hanover, Ref No: 24/29/KZN (X2 posts)
Magistrate Court: Hammersdale: Ref No: 24/30/KZN (X1 post)
Magistrate Court: Pietermaritzburg: Ref No: 24/31/KZN (X1 post)
Magistrate Court: Nqutu: Ref No: 24/32/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Nkandla: Ref No: 24/33/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Verulam: Ref No: 24/34/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Newcastle: Ref No: 24/35/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Pinetown: Ref No: 24/36/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Madadeni: Ref No: 24/37/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Louwsburg: Ref No: 24/38/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Babanango: Ref No: 24/39/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Emlazi: Ref No: 24/40/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Vryheid: Ref No: 24/41/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Court: Estcourt: Ref No: 24/42/KZN (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Court: Phungashe: Ref No: 24/43/KZN (X1 Post)
59
Family Advocate, Newcastle Ref No: 25/26/KZN (X1 Post)
Master of the High Court, Durban Ref No: 25/25/KZN (X1 Post)
Family Advocate: Kwamhlanga Ref No: 2025/10/MP (X1 Post)
Office of The State Attorney, Nelspruit ref no:2025/41/MP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies:
Computer skills; Planning and organizing; Interpersonal skills; Language skills
Flexibility; Good verbal and written communication skills; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin. Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Mpumalanga: Mr LT Mndebele at (081) 030 8037 or Mr TV Mavundla at 078
802 0741
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms MP Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000 or Ms NF Nkosi Tel No:
(031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre,,4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/161 : LEGAL SECRETARY (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of The State Attorney: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/51/GP (X1 Post)
Office of The State Attorney: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/37/MP (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Durban Ref No: 25/23/KZN (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or relevant
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily; Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Communication
skills (verbal and written); Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills;
Attention to detail; Integrity and loyalty; Knowledge of the relevant policies and
prescripts; Good telephone etiquette; Sound organizing skills; High level of
reliability.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and administrative support; Render administrative support
for meetings, functions and conferences; Provide general clerical office
administration; Prepare documents for the process to pay accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane at (060) 532 2006
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Provincial Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
Address: Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
KwaZulu-Natal: Quote the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
60
POST 27/162 : COURT INTERPRETER (X16 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office: Daveyton, Ref No: 2025/35/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Kagiso, Ref No: 2025/36/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Kempton Park, Ref No: 2025/37/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Alexandra, Ref No: 2025/38/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Johannesburg, Ref No: 2024/39/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Pretoria, Ref No: 2025/40/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Mamelodi, Ref No: 2025/41/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Protea, Ref No: 2025/42/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Sebokeng, Ref No: 2025/43/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Moretele, Ref No: 2025/44/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Germiston, Ref No: 2025/45/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mbombela, Ref No: 2025/50/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mbombela, Ref No: 2025/12/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Ntuzuma: Ref No: 25/44/KZN (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office Utrecht: Ref No: 25/45/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Three months Practical
experience will be an added advantage; Driver’s license will be an added
advantage. Proficiency in English and one or more indigenous languages;
Language Proficiency: Magistrate’s Office: Daveyton: English, Tshivenda,
Isizulu; Magistrate’s Office: Kagiso: English, Afrikaans, Setswana; Magistrate’s
Office: Kempton Park: English, Isixhosa, Sesotho; Magistrate’s Office:
Alexandra: English, Sesotho, Isixhosa; Magistrate’s Office: Johannesburg:
English, Isindebele, Isizulu; Magistrate’s Office: Pretoria: English, Isixhosa,
Setswana or Sesotho; Magistrate’s Office: Mamelodi: English, IsiXhosa, and
IsiXhosa or Setswana; Magistrate’s Office: Protea: English, Setswana, Sepedi;
Magistrate’s Office: Sebokeng: English, Sesotho, Isizulu; Magistrate’s Office:
Moretele: English, Setswana, and Xitsonga or Tshivenda or Isizulu;
Magistrate’s Office: Germiston: English, Isizulu, Sepedi, Sesotho; Magistrate
Office: Mbombela for ref no: 2025/50/MP: siSwati, Xitsonga, Sepedi;
Magistrate Office: Mbombela ref no: 2025/12/MP: siSwati, IsiXhosa, Sepedi.
Magistrate: Ntuzuma and Utrecht: IsiZulu and IsiXhosa. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills, Listening skills, Interpersonal skills,
Time management, Computer literacy, Analytical thinking; Problem solving;
Planning and organizing; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane at (060) 532 2006
Kwazulu-Natal: Ms V Mlandeliso Tel No: Tel No (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Provincial Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
Address: Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X 11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre ,4th floor building, Nelspruit 1200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: KwaZulu-Natal: Quote the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 27/163 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 25/25/NC/S.A-KIM
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Attorney, Northern Cape: Kimberley
61
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Relevant experience and knowledge of
BAS, JYP and Procurement procedures will serve as added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, Supply
Chain Management, Departmental policies, and Treasury Regulations. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word, Power Point, Outlook and
Excel); Strong communication skills (written & verbal); Creative and analytical,
Planning and Organising; Problem solving and conflict management; Accuracy
and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve as Trust Account and Vote Account Clerk;
Compile payment advices; Provide records management services and
reconcile agency payment; Provide supply chain support services; Relieve the
Telecom Operator when required; Provide support to the Administrative Officer;
Manage stationery and safe guarding of documents within Finance Control
section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gcilitshana Tel No: (053) 8077800
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings,
(Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges. Interested
applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
62
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above.
You may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The
Director-General, Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private
Bag X59, Arcadia, 0007. Another option is to submit application through email
as a Single scanned document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses
specified for each position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to
the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal
opportunity; affirmative action employer and it is its intention to promote
representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post. Persons
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are
encouraged to apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women
interested in senior management positions. An indication of such, in this regard
will be vital in the processing of applications. NB: Kindly note that the
Department provides for four methods of submitting a job application, namely:
Post, courier, hand delivery and email Applications must be submitted on the
recent Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as
issued by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation
10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable
online from www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be
completed (In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated),
and accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/164 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: 035
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree or Postgraduate Diploma in Public Management/ Business
Management/ Business Administration/ Public Administration or an appropriate
Postgraduate qualification (NQF Level 8) Plus minimum of 8 years’ experience
at Senior Managerial in a relevant field. Knowledge. knowledge and
understanding of DPMR policies, functions, projects etc. In-depth knowledge
of human capital management, knowledge of management policies, standards
and procedures. Relevant legislation and regulatory frameworks. System
thinking, integration and business process optimisation. Policy development,
63
strategic planning. Internal and external communication and liaison.
Publication services. Speech writing. Financial management. Project
management. Government policies. Project/programs in DMPR. National
Economic and Development Strategy. Information Technology. Skills:
Communication skills (verbal and written). Management and organisational
skills. Computer skills. Creativity and innovation. Interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills. Numerical skills. Organising and co-ordination. Facilitation and
implementation. Well-developed interpersonal relationships at all levels.
Financial Management. Negotiation and consultation skills. Problem solving
and analysis. Strategic Capability and leadership. Change management.
Teamwork and relationship building. Customer focus. Policy development and
implementation. Legal interpretation and Implementation; Thinking Demand:
Creative/ innovative thinker. Ability to analyse information. Logical. Objective.
Accurate. Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction to advance the achievement of the DMPR's
missions, strategic objectives mandate. Ensure the development and
implementation of facilities and security strategies and systems for efficient
infrastructure management including cleaning services, health and safety,
security and reception. Oversee the development and implementation of
Human Capital Management strategies and systems and drive the integration
and execution of culture, change, wellness, performance, labour relations and
other HR services. Drive the development and execution of Communication,
Marketing, and Stakeholder Management strategies and systems, media
relations, and other stakeholder engagement functions. Oversee the
management of Information Technology functions of the Department to ensure
the establishment of sound information Management Systems. Oversee the
provision of legal support and advisory services to the Ministry and
Department. Oversee the provision of strategic leadership and support to the
Minister and Director General in the execution of their responsibilities relating
to oversight of the State -Owned Enterprise. Lead and manage the people,
financial, governance, compliance, systems and risk aspects of the portfolio
and ensure successful execution and delivery of the branch’s priorities,
programs and project.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka at 082 303 7721
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment01@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to women and persons with disabilities. Note: No
appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate producing
a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) offered
by the National School of government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo
a compulsory competency assessment and technical assessment. The
Candidate will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. Candidates who are
applying online are requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF
format.
POST 27/165 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH REF NO: 036
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Health Science or relevant to Occupational Health (NQF 7) Plus
registration with the HPCSA with a minimum 5 years senior management
experience in the field. Knowledge of: Project management, planning, project
finance and economics, industry and public- sector policies, strategies and
legislation in the field of Mine Health and Safety, people management and data
management and analysis report writing and presentation. Knowledge of
planning Tools. Skills: Communication skills. Project management skills.
Report writing and presentation skills. Decision making. Interpersonal skills.
Negotiation skills. Computer skills. Time management and work planning.
Analytical skills. Thinking Demand: Rigorous non-corruption thinking relating in
the development and implementation of plans and strategy. Dynamic, open and
assertive in monitoring and overseeing data collection and analysis.
DUTIES : Oversee/ provide specialist advice/ information in respect of occupational
hygiene and medicine related matters as well as the status of occupational
hygiene and medicine in the mining industry. Oversee the rendering of medical
advice as mandated by the Act. Lead research and benchmarking of the status
of occupational medicine in the mining industry with international counterparts/
countries to identify training and policy needs. Oversee quality assurance of
64
the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate processes and outputs (e.g.
inspections, audits, investigations and enquiries). Ensure/ Assist with the
technical aspects of standards, legislation and specifications. Manage the
Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Mziza at 071 475 8343
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment02@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to women and persons with disabilities. Note: No
appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate producing
a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) offered
by the National School of government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo
a compulsory competency assessment and technical assessment. The
Candidate will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. Candidates who are
applying online are requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF
format. This is a re-advert, candidates who are applied previously are
encouraged to re-apply.
65
ANNEXURE H
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
The National School of Government (The NSG) contributes to building of an effective, capable and
professional public service through providing relevant, mandatory and non-mandatory training
programmes. Suitably qualified, dynamic, enthusiastic, and experienced people are invited to apply for
the vacant permanent positions.
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment.ASD2@thensg.gov.za or hand delivery at ZK Matthews
Building, 70 Meintjies Street, Sunnyside, Pretoria or use postal address: The
Principal: National School of Government, Private Bag X759, Pretoria, 0001. If
you do not submit your application and CV to the specified email address, your
application will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Applicants are
encouraged to apply via the e-recruitment system.
FOR ATTENTION : for attention and Enquiries: Kindly contact Mr Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441-
6017or Mr Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441-6108
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must consist of a fully completed and signed new Z83 form
accompanied by a comprehensive CV that includes contactable references.
Only shortlisted candidates will need to send certified documents on or before
the day of the interview. The reference number must be quoted on the
application form. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements. Appointments are subject to
suitability checks, including security vetting, confirmation of citizenship,
checking financial records, and verification of qualifications. Applications that
do not adhere to the above-mentioned requirements and late applications will
not be considered. The successful candidate must disclose particulars of
registrable financial interests within one month of the date of assumption of
duty and must sign a performance agreement within three months from this
date. The selection process will be in line with the NSG’s Recruitment and
Selection Policy and other prescripts. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department and its
employment equity targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender, and disability) through the filling of this post. The NSG reserves
the right not to make an appointment and to use other recruitment processes.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applicants are
requested to visit the NSG’s website at www.thensg.gov.za or
www.dpsa.gov.za for information on the requirements and duties of the
position.
OTHER POST
POST 27/166 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: NSG 19/2025
Job Purpose: To champion education, training and development (ETD)
interventions in respect of integrity management, ethical conduct and
accountability in the public sector.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an inclusive remuneration package starting)
which comprises a basic salary (70% 75% of package), a contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund (15% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and a tertiary
qualification at NQF Level 7 in the field of Business, Commerce, Management
and Law Studies, Human and/ or Social Studies or related fields. Experience:
Five (5) years’ experience in applying knowledge and building capacity in public
sector institutions in the specialist areas of good governance, ethics
management, fraud prevention and investigation of corrupt activities,
promoting anti-corruption, auditing and monitoring and evaluation
methodologies combined with developing, reviewing and delivering education,
training and development content in these areas. Three (3) years of this period
66
must be on a supervisory or managerial level. Knowledge: Public sector
legislation, policies and frameworks, e.g., the Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, the Public Administration and Management Act, the Public
Finance Management Act and Public Sector Regulatory Frameworks.
Specialist knowledge of legislation, policies and frameworks, e.g., Preventing
and Combatting Corrupt Activities Act, the Criminal Procedures Act, the
Protected Disclosures Act, The Prevention of Organised Crime Act and the
Public Sector Code of Conduct. Education, training and development
legislation, policies and frameworks, e.g., the South African Qualifications
Authority and the National Qualifications Framework, combined with
knowledge of adult and action learning principles, research and analysis
techniques as well as quality management systems in the education, training
and development environment. Competencies and Skills: The ability to solve
problems and apply critical thinking skills to manage projects, coordinate and
deliver training interventions and to evaluate and develop the knowledge and
skills of facilitators. The ability to present information to a variety of audiences
and to facilitate training sessions. Advanced computer literacy in the Microsoft
suite of programmes and applications used to present and manage virtual and
blended training sessions, e.g., Teams, Zoom, Moodle, Mentimeter, Google
Sheets and Google Forms, MURAL, and Survey Monkey. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Excellent project, time and people management
skills. Advanced writing, organizing and planning skills. Personal Attributes:
Commitment to continuous learning and professional development to stay
abreast of knowledge and trends. Ability to organize, prioritize, and complete
multiple projects on time and with diligence. Ability to work independently or in
collaboration with others. Maintain strong, respectful relationships with senior
leadership, peers, subordinates, stakeholders, and the public, demonstrating
professionalism and sound judgment in all interactions.
DUTIES : The job focuses on building capacity in public sector institutions in the specialist
areas of good governance, ethics management, fraud prevention and
investigation of corrupt activities, promoting anti-corruption, auditing
information and monitoring and evaluation methodologies. Job Content: ETD
Needs Identification: Conduct comprehensive needs analyses to determine
capacity-building requirements within the public sector. Ensure the availability
and alignment of learning and development interventions to address identified
needs. ETD Content Development and Enablement: Screen, select, orient,
develop and monitor the performance of facilitators to deliver high-quality
training. Promote the uptake of training programmes across relevant audiences
including the public sector. Provide expert advice to clients and actively
participate in the design and implementation of learning interventions and
strategies. ETD Pre-Delivery Support: Manage education and training
programmes and projects from planning to execution to finalisation. Oversee
delivery schedules, coordinate activities, and monitor training targets. Facilitate
workshops, seminars, and webinars; host knowledge-sharing events.
Represent the NSG at intergovernmental and intragovernmental forums. ETD
Post-Delivery Support: Offer ongoing support and guidance to learners and
clients. Address and resolve issues identified through monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) processes. Manage stakeholder relationships and maintain
robust networks across sectors. Provide advice on accreditation standards and
ensure compliance with relevant requirements. Governance and Management:
Lead, direct, and manage the unit’s resources, including personnel, finances,
systems, and assets. Oversee daily operations and ensure alignment with
strategic objectives. Monitor and report on the achievement of performance
and financial targets. Identify, assess, and manage strategic and operational
risks. Preference will be given to Youth, African Males, African Females,
Coloured Males, White Males, and people with a disability in accordance with
the NSG’s employment equity requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
67
ANNEXURE I
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success. The applicant’s
profile on the e-Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83 and it is
the responsibility of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or
their applications will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note.
Certain documentation will still be required to be uploaded on the system such
as copies of all qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric
certificate, ID, etc., however these documents need not be certified at point of
application, however certification will be required prior to attending the
interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two
assessments. The first assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, while the second assessment will
be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School
of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
The status of your application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system.
However, if you have not received feedback from the National Treasury within
3 months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Note: The National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned
posts, withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. The
National Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the position of Chief Director: Human Resources
Management with Ref No: S002/2025 (For National Treasury) advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 09 May 2025 with a closing date of
23 May 2025, has been withdrawn from the recruitment and selection process
and is being re-advertised with different skills set. For enquiries, please send
to Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/167 : CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER REF NO: S002/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide strategic leadership in the areas of talent acquisition and
management, employee engagement and wellness, performance
management, organisational design and development, people development,
change management and labour relations in support of the National Treasury
business operations.
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in
Management, Economics, Industrial Psychology, Human Resource
Management or equivalent related qualification, A relevant qualification at NQF
68
Level 8, An added advantage will be a qualification at NQF level 9 , A minimum
of 5 years’ experience obtained at a senior managerial level, In-depth
knowledge and experience in public administration, Knowledge of the public
service employment laws and frameworks, Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ , prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: People Strategy and talent acquisition and
management: Develop and align NT’s People Strategy with National Treasury
and Corporate Service strategic objectives, Provide guidance on the
implementation of the People Strategy, Review and align the People Strategy
as required by departmental, DPSA and best practice developments, Guide on
the development of the Talent Acquisition and Management Programme, Guide
on the implementation of the Talent Acquisition and Management Programme
and alignment with best practice, Align the programmes with best practices on
talent acquisition and management and integrate developments, Performance
Management: Develop, review and implement an improved performance
management system in the National Treasury that supports a high-
performance culture aligned to business objectives, Develop, review and
implement a job evaluation system and process that supports talent retention
in line with the objectives of the National Treasury and National Government,
Ensure technical and other support for the job evaluation panel to effectively
dealt with JE matters, Align the job evaluation with other related areas such as
organisational development and design, career management and talent
acquisition and management, Employee engagement and wellness, and
change management: Facilitate the creation of a workplace environment that
is conducive through a pro-active approach to employee engagement and
wellness, Ensure the effective functioning of the Departmental Bargaining
Chamber (DBC) and cordial relations with Organised Labour, Provide
appropriate labour relations advice and support to management and staff,
Facilitate the development and implementation of organisational development
interventions which support a high-performance culture, Develop and review
the enhancement of the Change Management Framework pertaining to
implementation, Implement a strategic exit interview framework which feeds
into mechanisms and processes to improve talent retention, Develop and
review the enhancement and implementation of an approved Wellness
Strategy for the National Treasury, Initiate awareness on wellness programmes
which support the creation of a safe and enabling working environment,
Organisational design (OD) and development: Facilitate the development and
implementation of organisational development interventions which support a
high-performance culture. Develop an approved and implement a people
development infrastructure for National Treasury, Initiate awareness sessions
on OD in the National Treasury, Implement organisational design and
development principles in support of the technical and behavioural competency
framework of the National Treasury, Respond to the organisational design
needs of the department including management and leadership development,
implementation of a dual career model and graduate development, People
Management and Development: Ensure that the service delivery directorate is
adequately resourced and capacitated to deliver on its mandate, Ensure that
all employees have and implement development plans in line with their
developmental areas and career paths, Create a high-performance culture
which recognises and rewards excellent performance, Develop and apply an
employee centric service delivery culture within the National Treasury, Monitor
and address areas of under-performance, incapacity and ill-discipline within
the National Treasury.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
69
POST 27/168 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE (HIGHER EDUCATION & TRAINING AND
ECONOMIC SERVICES) REF NO: S015/2025 (X3 POSTS)
Division: Public Finance (PF)
Purpose: To co-ordinate and strategically monitor the sectors in the
development of financial planning and budgeting, financial management,
expenditure, and support of service delivery initiatives for policy development
and implementation in the sectors, impacting both the national and provincial
government sphere.
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in
Economic Sciences, Development Studies, or Social Sciences, A minimum 5
years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial obtained in strategic
management, including management of policy processes and project
management, In-depth knowledge of policy development and implementation,
Detailed knowledge of the South African public finance terrain, especially
intergovernmental fiscal relations, government policy processes, budget
processes and financial management, Approaches to poverty eradication,
inequality, and related development issues in South Africa, Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme by the National School of Government available as an online
course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ , prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Monitoring and implementation of Financial
Planning and Budgeting: Monitor financial management and budgeting impact
on departmental and provincial treasury level and implement relevant policy
initiatives. Review the annual budget process, sectoral expenditure review
processes and intergovernmental technical committees. Maintain sound
relationships with key stakeholders in the sectors and pursue a process of
modernisation and reform. Communicate latest trends and processes for
implementation in annual budget process and escalate to stakeholders. Budget
analysis and financial planning: Provide strategic direction in government
sectoral financing, financing mechanisms and levels of funding. Co-ordinate
the analysis of budget submissions and budgetary contributions to budget
documentation (Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, Budget Review,
Estimates of National Expenditure and Intergovernmental Fiscal Review). Plan
and provide inputs in fiscal and budget processes at national and provincial
level, prioritise budget co-ordination, overall fiscal framework, division of
revenue, and national and provincial main and adjustment estimates. Create a
platform for budget reform and the development of three-year budgets (MTEF)
cycle, service delivery indicators and the integration of strategic planning.
Financial management, expenditure, and service delivery: Develop reporting
systems and databases. Oversee the implementation of the Public
Management Act. Advise and monitor the implementation and interpretation of
the Treasury Regulations. Policy analysis and implementation: Analysis of
policies and advice to the Ministry of Finance, National Treasury and other
stakeholders. Process / Design for participation in sectoral policy processes,
institutional reform & implementation, support for strengthening coherence of
policy processes, policy analysis and costing.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/169 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: S018/2025
Division: Public Finance (PF)
Purpose: To provide technical guidance to national departments and state-
owned agencies on fiscal and financial matters pertaining to the evaluation of
policy proposals and spending plans in the monitoring of expenditure against
service delivery targets and trends.
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A National Diploma (minimum of NQF level 6) or
Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in Economics, Accounting or
Public Finance, A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at
70
an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in budgetary and financial
management; Knowledge and experience of the public sector budgetary and
expenditure framework, Knowledge of sector financial processes, budgeting
and MTEF process, Knowledge of regulatory directives like the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Budget Analysis and Financial Planning: Provide
guidance to client departments in their preparation of annual budget
submissions and related budget documentation, Analyse the annual MTEF
submissions of departments and devise corrective steps pertaining to budget
documentation, which include the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement,
Appropriation Bill, Budget Review and Estimates of National Expenditure,
Contribute to the budget process nationally and evaluate the departments’
requests for roll-over funds and additional funds, budget programme
structures, NRF drawings, shifting of funds and suspension of funds. Monitor
Expenditure Plans against Service Delivery Targets: Monitor compliance and
alignment to the prescribed PFMA and Treasury Regulations and guide
stakeholders on its interpretation for the correct implementation and
application, thereof, Perform in-year analysis and advice on expenditure plans
and trends to enhance the financial gains and effectiveness within
departments, Monitor the achievements of departments’ against service
delivery plans and set targets, Verify programme and project outputs for
alignment based on the successes administered by departments, Follow-up on
findings and concerns emanating from the Auditor-General’s reports and
parliamentary working committees on department’s financial affairs. Analyse
Policy and Monitor Implementation: Perform policy analysis and monitor the
correct implementation in line with the prescribed legislative framework.
contribute to policy enhancements by providing strategic solutions for
applications within the sectors, Provide guidance and support on key policy
determinations within the relevant sector. Benchmarking and Research: Initiate
benchmarking exercises with reputable government departments on the latest
trends, globally. Perform research with international institution on the latest
interventions pertaining to policy development, financial planning, expenditure
monitor, etc. Engage stakeholders on the latest work processes and key
developments pertaining to sectoral, national and state-owned entities/
agencies.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 27/170 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SCM GOVERNANCE, MONITORING AND
COMPLIANCE REF NO: S019/2025
Division: Office Of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To develop, implement and monitoring legislative requirements
pertaining to the SCM Governance, Monitoring and Compliance strategy and
frameworks within the broader government spheres for enhancement and
identification of oversight and discrepancies.
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A National Diploma (minimum of NQF level 6) or
Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in Commerce, Supply Chain
Management, Economics or Legal, A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2
years should be on an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in the
broader supply chain management environment, Knowledge and experience
of governance, monitoring and compliance processes pertaining to
procurement, Knowledge and experience of the broader public service SCM
framework, Knowledge of government procurement policy analysis, evaluation
of findings and the implementation thereof.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Strategy and Policy Management: Provide inputs
into the continuous development of a SCM strategy and frameworks
implementation plan pertaining to Governance, Monitoring and Compliance
(GMC), Develop and maintain policies in alignment with the SCM framework
as follows: client agreements for the submission of SCM reports, SCM
reporting criteria and schedules, provide inputs into the State-Owned Entities
enforcement processes, manage the SCM Restricted Suppliers List, and
manage SCM cases and plans databases, Provide input into the development
of SCM policy, norms, standards, frameworks and guidelines. Stakeholder
Engagement: Engage stakeholders in the establishment of GMC strategic
71
networks for improved collaboration, accountability and transparency, Promote
the compliance of SCM policies and procedures in line with prescribed
regulations, Initiate the improved SCM compliance through awareness
sessions with stakeholders. Governance and Frameworks Oversight: Develop
and implement measurements within the SCM legislative frameworks for
monitoring and compliance of: application of SCM policy, regulations, norms
and standards, adherence to SCM strategy and performance indicators,
National supply chain risk management policy, Preferential procurement policy
determinations, Pricing structures (prescribed price reference index), National
contracting authorities code of conduct, and Supplier code of conduct and
performance management, Develop in conjunction with stakeholders SCM
data collection through: Demand Management, Procurement Planning,
Acquisition Management, Strategic Sourcing, Contract Management, Logistic
Management, Disposal Management and Performance Management and
Reporting, Develop SCM reporting and reviewing framework for: MTEF annual
supply chain operational strategies, and SCM annual performance
assessments and reviews, Design and maintain a SCM capability maturity
assessment model pertaining to compliance, Initiate a research, design and
develop platform, for: SCM non-compliance reviews and remedies framework,
and SCM grievance and dispute resolution mechanism. Monitoring and
Evaluation and Reporting: Assist with the report on Government Agencies
enforcement processes, Manage the SCM Restricted Suppliers List in
accordance with the Supplier Restriction Guidelines, Assist with the
development of a monitoring and evaluation system on the performance of
SCM governance framework, Assist with the evaluation and reporting of the
SCM governance framework. Knowledge and Information Management: Assist
with the implementation of a research platform on local and international
trends, and good practices on the management of SCM governance,
monitoring and compliance, Identify and recommend alternative solutions for
SCM governance, monitoring and compliance, Maintain the content of SCM
GMC Knowledge and Information Management platforms.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 27/171 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCM RISK AND PERFORMANCE REF NO:
S020/2025
Division: Office Of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage contract management, SCM Performance and facilitating
Travel Coordination arrangements.
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A National Diploma (minimum of NQF level 6) or
Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in Travel or Tourism or SCM or
Supply chain management or Business Management, A minimum 3 years’
experience obtained in logistics, supply chain management, contract
management travel, transportation and hotel bookings, Knowledge of relevant
Public Service framework on travel coordination and SCM, Knowledge of policy
analysis and research, and Knowledge of analysis of practice notes on
Government travel directives and related.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Coordinate Travel Arrangements, and Verify
payments: Communicate with service providers on service offerings and
confirm bookings, Liaise with travel bookers to facilitate arranged travelling,
Monitor travel needs of the divisions for compliance and alignment with travel
budget, Advice stakeholders on all travel-related issues impacting on their
budgets, Verify all payments made against set government rates as per
contracts terms and conditions, Negotiate discounted rates with service
providers, Confirm compliance and conformance of service providers to the
travel and accommodation industry requirements. Monitor Deviation pertaining
to flights, accommodation, car hire, venue hire and conferencing: Report any
losses suffered by the organization due to cancellations and negligence,
Provide spend analysis in terms of categories e.g. venue hire and
conferencing, Provide feedback to management on savings, exceptions,
company travel and deviations. Comply to travel policy and procedures:
Develop and align the travel policy and monitor adherence pertaining to the
application on specified types of cars allowed for hire, verify the validity of trip
authorization form prior to trips being undertaken or amendments to travel
72
plans, Monitor the application and distribution of road travel credit cards to the
service providers. Monitor Performance of Suppliers: Conduct quarterly
performance reviews on contracted service providers including site visits,
Benchmark against industry best standards, Analyze information and advice
on corrective measures for continuous improvements. Contract Management:
Develop and review all relevant departmental policies relating to contract
management and administration, Receive and coordinate the development of
the all-contract agreements with Legal services, Maintain updates and liaise
with relevant stakeholders for finalisation of contract agreements and approval
thereof, Maintain efficient and effective contract administration, tracking
performance, ensuring compliance, and managing any changes or issues that
may arise, Provide weekly, monthly and quarterly report relating to contract
administration, Provide weekly, monthly and quarterly report relating to contract
administration. SCM Performance and Risk Management: Identify areas of risk
within the operations of SCM and advise on corrective actions for
implementation, monitor contracts extensions, variations, expansions and
irregular, wasteful and unauthorised expenditures and report to the necessary
authorities, Provide quarterly review report on SCM performance and action
plans.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 27/172 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: PERSONNEL REMUNERATION REF NO:
S016/2025
Division: Office Of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide an effective and efficient administrative service concerning
the National Treasury’s payroll, debtors’ management, service terminations,
other allowances payable to its employees and tax on service providers.
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, A National Diploma (minimum of NQF level 6) or
Bachelor’s degree (minimum of NQF level 7) in Financial Management or
Accounting, A minimum of 2 years’ appropriate experience and knowledge of
Personnel Remuneration and Debtors Management, In-depth and knowledge
and experience of PERSAL and BAS.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Efficiently and effectively process accounting
transactions relating to the Department’s payroll: Accurately calculate and
record, obtain and file necessary supporting documentation for all payroll
related transactions, Capture/authorise payroll related transactions within the
PERSAL/BAS Systems, Provide budgetary information in the required format,
Prepare monthly and annual management reports and/or supply such other
information regarding the Department’s payroll, Continuously comply with all
relevant and application statutes, regulations and departmental prescripts
applicable to the Department’s payroll, Execute project related activities in
accordance with the approved projects deliverables. Account for and
administer amounts owed to the Department (debtors management): Identify,
calculate, record and process amounts owed to the Department, and ensure
that those amounts owed are substantiate with necessary supporting
documentation and recovered within the periods allowed, Prepare monthly
debtors reconciliations and distribute debtors’ statements within the
appropriate time frames, liaise with and make recommendation to the relevant
authorities concerning the recovery or writing off of amounts owed to the
Department, Prepare monthly management reports and/or supply such other
information pertaining to debtor control/suspense accounts, Continuously
comply with all relevant and application statutes, regulations and departmental
prescripts applicable to debtors’ management. Administer the subsistence and
travel advance and claims payable to staff: Accurately calculate, record and
process amount payable to employees and ensure that transactions are
properly supported with the necessary supporting documentation, Prepare
monthly management reports and supply such other information regarding
subsistence and travel, Continuously comply with all relevant and application
statutes, regulations and departmental prescripts applicable to subsistence
and travel advance/claims, Execute project related activities in accordance with
the approved projects deliverables. Administer service terminations
(resignations and transfers): Obtain/request the necessary documentation and
ensure that the required documentation is duly completed and approved by the
73
applicable line managers and forwarded to the relevant intuitions,
Capture/process service termination and related transactions within the
PERSAL/BAS Systems, Identify amounts owed to/by the employee and ensure
that such amount are properly supported, accurately calculated, repaid to the
employee or received by the Department within the relevant prescripts,
Continuously comply with all relevant and application statutes, regulations and
departmental prescripts applicable to service terminations, Execute project
related activities in accordance with the approved projects deliverables. Ensure
that tax is deducted from service providers/consultants: Obtain required
documentation from service providers or consultants and ensure that the
documentation is duly completed and validate the information provided,
Accurately calculate and record tax payable by service providers or consultants
and ensure that transactions are properly supported with the necessary
supporting documentation and paid over to South African Revenue Service
within required timeframes, Issue relevant certificates to service
providers/consultants and South African Revenue Service, Continuously
comply with all relevant and application statutes, regulations and departmental
prescripts applicable to service terminations. Monitor and ensure that amounts
allocated to control/suspense accounts are cleared and reconciled on a timely
basis: Continuously correspond/communicate with institutions in order to
recover/clear amounts allocated to control/suspense accounts, Prepare
monthly reconciliations and ensure that amounts allocated to control/suspense
accounts are cleared on a timely basis, Prepare monthly and annual
management reports and supply such other information pertaining to
control/suspense accounts, Continuously comply with all the relevant and
applicable statutes, regulations and departmental prescripts that are applicable
to the control/suspense accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 27/173 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF
NO: S017/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To render efficient and effective administrative support services within
the office of the Director-General.
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, coupled with a formal Light Vehicle Driver’s license, A
minimum 10 years’ experience is required, obtained in an administrative,
secretarial or related office environment, Knowledge of the supply chain
administrative set-up pertaining to the procurement of goods and stationery,
Knowledge and experience of driver duties and their intrinsic requirement,
Willingness to occasionally operating outside office hours.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Prepare documents and logistics for meetings:
Print, Copy, Scan and distribute highly confidential or even secret documents
during meetings, Plan and organise the reproduction of documents, distribute
documentations prior and during meetings, Coordinate venue set-up that
includes technical and logistical arrangements, Ensure adherence to the MIS
in dealing with documents. Administer Goods and Services: Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services,
obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard
office items, Stock control of office stationery, Keep and maintain the asset
register of the component, Oversee the maintenance of all office equipment.
Office Support/ Registry: Keep and maintain the attendance register of the
component, Arrange travelling and accommodation, Capture and update
expenditure in component, Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims
of officials and submit to supervisor for approval, Handle telephone accounts
and petty cash for the component, Coordinate and administer leave for the
Office of the DG, Provide registry and memo administration support. Support
to the Office of the Director-General: Provide a transport support service to the
DG to attend meetings and other events as required (e.g. post-budget and
post-MTEF radio/ TV interviews, Collaborate with the DG’s PA concerning local
transportation requirements in accordance with his/ her programme outlined in
his diary, Collect and deliver confidential and secret documents within the
department, Collect and deliver official documents within the Department and
other institutions.
74
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
75
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand)/: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th
Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7,
Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor,
Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualifications of the application during the selection process. Applications
on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual
citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
76
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/174 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CHIEF DIRECTORATE: COURT AND CASE
FLOW MANAGEMENT SUPERIOR COURTS REF NO: 2025/197/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Office Management/ Information Management/
Public Administration/ Business Administration/ equivalent qualification at
(NQF level 6), A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Office Administration/
Secretariat Services, A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Financial, Provisioning and Human Resource administration procedures and
processes, Document tracking, storage and retrieval, Computer Literate, Good
telephone and office etiquette, Relevant Public Service and Departmental
legislation/prescripts/policies and procedures, Procedure and processes
applied in Office Management, Meeting procedures, Operating office
equipment (e.g. Computer, photocopy, scanner, projector), Basic knowledge
on financial administration. Organizing and Communication skills, Report
writing skill, Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and
Internet, etc.), Presentation skills, Problem solving skills, Good interpersonal
relations, Planning and organizing, Language skills, Numeracy, Literacy,
Typing skills. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide a clerical support service to the Office of the Chief Director Provide a
secretarial/receptionist support service to the Office of the Chief Director
Render administrative support service to the Office of the Chief Director,
Remain up to date with regard to prescripts/policies and procedures applicable
to the work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the Office of the
Chief Director.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/ related enquiries: Ms W Lambley Tel No: (010) 493 2561
HR related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/197/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/175 : POOL JUDGE’S SECRETARIES REF NO: 2025/198/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months non-renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric plus LLB degree; Valid driver’s license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test Skills and Competencies:
Good written and oral communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
office). Customer services skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Planning skills.
Organising and control. Able to work under pressure. Ability to multi-task.
Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. Skills and competencies:
Proficiency in English, Proficiency in Microsoft Office Programs, Ability to
conduct research Problem solving, Planning and organizing, Ability to maintain
confidentiality, Good judgment and decision-making skills, Good interpersonal
relations with ability to take charge, effective communication (verbally and in
writing),Able to work under pressure, Ability to multitask, Telephone etiquette,
Professionalism, Ability to meet strict deadlines, Time management skills and
People skills.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgements only). To
ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended
77
to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed.
To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that
the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews is up to
date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk. To ensure
that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and notifying the
Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when judgment
has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from
transcribers reach the Judge for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls
for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and/or telephonically of time and
date when reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them on
how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the
Judge is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before Judge
enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in court
before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all cases are called and
recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and the parties’ names on
record before Judge can allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that
the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in court, when required. To
ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally and
captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the
electronic court file after it was granted by Judge in court. To ensure that all the
travel, accommodation arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the
documents being signed prior approval. To ensure that the Judge’s logbook is
submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Officer. To ensure
that the car is booked for either maintenance and service, receive the
preauthorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To remind the Judge of the invoices
so that the submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the
submission of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure
that court roll(s) is submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before every Friday.
To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library are attended
to. Execute legal research as directed by the Judge. Comply with departmental
Policies and Prescripts and procedures or guidelines, including signing of
payroll
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010 494 8486
HR related enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/198/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/176 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/199/OCJ (X3 POSTS)
(12 Months non-renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of the High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A minimum of two (2) years secretarial experience, Experience in a
legal/ court environment will serve as an added advantage, An LLB Degree,
Bachelor of Law Degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB, BA or Bachelor of Law Degree will serve as an advantage. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an advantage, Shortlisted candidates will be required to
pass a typing test, Skills and Competencies: Proficiency in English; Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Administration and organizational
skills; Exceptional interpersonal skills; Ability to meet strict deadlines and to
work under pressure; Attention to detail; Customer care service skills; Excellent
typing skills; Confidentiality; Time management; Computer literacy (MS Office);
Ability to provide support services to a Judge in the office and in a court setting;
Attend and provide support services including court administration services for
a Judge at circuit courts around the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide general legal secretarial/ legal administrative duties to the Judge,
Typing (or formatting) of draft memorandums, directions, opinions, letters for
or by the Judge, Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for
the Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings, official visits, make travel and accommodation arrangements for
circuit, meetings etc with the relevant administration unit at the court. Store,
78
keep and safeguard all case files and update the case files with postponements
orders and/ or made by the Judge. Update files with documents received.
Update exhibit and witness list in criminal matters. Perform digital recordings
of court proceedings on urgent court cases after hours or on circuit court and
ensure the integrity of recordings. Accompany the Judge to court and keep a
record of times (start and end times daily, including adjournments. Compile
court statistics daily and ensure accurate updates on the statistical tools.
Management of the Judge’s vehicle, logbook and servicing thereof. Compile
data and prepare reports and documents for assigned Judges as necessary,
including expense reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statements and case management. Arrange refreshments for the Judge and
his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Manage the Judge’s library and
the updating of loose-leaf publications. Attend to and execute requests from
the judiciary in connection with cases and case-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2411
HR enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/199/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/177 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/200/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of grade twelve (12) and ten (10) years’
practical experience in court interpreting or a 3 years National Diploma (NQF
6) in Legal interpreting or equivalent qualification on NQF Level 6 (360 credits)
and a minimum of three (3) years practical experience in court Interpreting.
Proficiency in English, Afrikaans, Isixhosa, Isizulu, Sesotho, Setswana, Sepedi,
Isiswati, Tsonga and Tshivenda, selobedu, sepulani, isiNdebele, sign language
and any foreign language will be an added advantage) candidates will be
required to undergo oral written language proficiency testing. A valid driver’s
license will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal), computer literacy (MS Office), good
interpersonal skills, ability to work to work under pressure and solve problems,
Accuracy and attention to detail, customer service. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering interpreting services in criminal court, civil court, labour and quasi-
judicial proceedings. Rendering interpreting services during consultations.
Translate legal documents and exhibits. Assist with reconstruction of court
records. Develop terminology, coin words. Perform specific line and
administrative support functions of the Judiciary, court Manager and Supervisor
as and when is required.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/ HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/200/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/178 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: 2025/201/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Service Centre: Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, No experience required, NQF level 6 in the related field will be an
added advantage,, knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Public Service Act, Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations 2016, Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of working environment, Batho Pele Principles,
Communication skills (verbal and written), Administration skills, Planning and
organizing skills, Computer skills, Time management skills, Basic numeracy
skill ,Interpersonal relations, Typing skill.
DUTIES : Facilitate administration of recruitment, selection and appointment processes
with the Province, Implementation of Transactions on PERSAL system in
respect of appointments, Injury on duty, Long service recognitions, pensions,
79
transfers, Housing allowance, performance management, Training and Service
termination,
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries/ HR Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/201/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
80
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using one of the following methods: Email to
recruitment2024@dsac.gov.za, quoting the reference number and title of the
position on the subject line. There will be no follow-up emails to this address.
Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central. Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applications received after the closing
date will not be considered or accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025, 16:00
NOTE : Each application must be submitted separately. Applications must consist of: A
recently updated, comprehensive CV, a fully completed, initialled and signed
new Z83 form (Sections A, B, C&D are compulsory and must be completed in
full, and sections E, F and G are not compulsory if the information is contained
in the CV). However, the question related to conditions that prevent
reappointment under Part F must be answered. Use of the old Z83 Form or not
completing compulsory sections of the application form will result in a
disqualification. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified
copies of ID, Driver’s licence (where required) and qualifications on or before
the interview. Should you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA); Applicants must be South African citizens.
Shortlisted candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel
interview at a date and time determined by DSAC. The applicant should make
own arrangement for access to internet connectivity and equipment for this
purpose. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks and references will
be conducted once they are shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a
positive outcome on these checks, including security clearance, security
vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, previous employment verification and criminal record. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. We
encourage all applicants to declare any criminal and/or negative credit records.
All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate will be required
to enter into an employment contract and sign an annual performance
agreement. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity
targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of these posts. Should the Department not be able
to recruit candidates from disadvantaged groups, other groups will be
considered for appointment. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this
advert by notice on its communication channels. Prior to appointment for SMS
post, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-
entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by the DPSA,
which is an online course endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced from the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We
thank all applicants for their interest.
81
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/179 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSAC-
01/08/2025
The purpose of this post is to promote the Arts and Culture sector for the
department
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), consisting of
a basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in Arts and Culture, Cultural Studies, Social Science, Heritage, or any
relevant Cultural qualification; Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate
for Public Sector Senior Management Leadership as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG); A minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience at a
Senior Management level or equivalent, in the cultural and creative industries
environment, in public or private sector; A valid driver’s license and willingness
to travel; Knowledge in the public sector governance, management, and
accountability frameworks; In-depth knowledge of government policies,
Regulations, Acts, Legislations, prescripts and National Programme of action;
Knowledge and understanding of the cultural and creative sectors; Knowledge
of the South African cultural landscape and relevant legislation (e.g.,
Constitution, National Development Plan, White Paper on Arts, Culture and
Heritage). Strategic capability and leadership, people management,
programme and project management, financial management and service
delivery innovation skills. Excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal
and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Develop and Promote all cultural domains in the Cultural and Creative Industry,
amongst all communities; Develop and implement policies and strategies to
strengthen the Cultural and Creative Industry across all cultural domains;
Promote and render strategic support to community art centers and other such
structures that create growth of the industry; Conduct research and develop
policies and strategies in support of the development of arts, culture and
creative industries; Oversee the management of Mzansi Golden Economy
strategy to sustain the industry; Ensure implementation of the Cultural and
Creative Industries Masterplan; Ensuring sustenance of a functional model and
strategy to support Sector Clusters; Supporting Provinces and municipalities,
where applicable to implement the CCI Masterplan; Support the development
and promotion of creative industries; Develop, manage and implement sector
orientated policies and strategic; Promote the development of creative
industries skills; Promote the improvement of creative industry products;
Promote creative industries by means of awareness and capacity building
programmes; Establish and implement youth, women and artists with
disabilities enrichment strategies and programmes; Monitor adherence to
intergovernmental and international agreements/ partnerships.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CN Khumalo Tel No: (012) 441 3439
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/180 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TERMINOLOGY COORDINATION (AFRIKAANS)
REF NO: DSAC-02/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Practice, Linguistics,
Translation and Interpreting Studies, /BA/BED with a major in Afrikaans or
relevant language qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years
as a Language Practitioner in terminological or lexicographical environment;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations; Knowledge in terminological or
lexicographical language; Knowledge of relevant prescripts and regulations;
Knowledge and understanding of Language policies and procedures; Strong
editing, proofreading, and writing skills; Excellent command of at least two
82
official languages (including English); Project Management skills; Technical
skills; Problem solving and Analysis; Presentation skills; Good Communication
and interpersonal relations; Computer Literacy; Planning and organising skills;
Research skills.
DUTIES : To ensure that a multilingual technical terminology service is rendered in the
department; Create and compile source language material for terminology;
Compile target language content in the department; Plan and Coordinate
terminology projects; Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mnisi Tel No: (012) 441 3851
POST 27/181 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TERMINOLOGY COORDINATION (SETSWANA)
REF NO: DSAC-03/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Practice, Linguistics,
Translation and Interpreting Studies, /BA/BED with a major in Setswana or
relevant language qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years
as a Language Practitioner in terminological or lexicographical environment;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations; Knowledge in terminological or
lexicographical language; Knowledge of relevant prescripts and regulations;
Knowledge and understanding of Language policies and procedures; Strong
editing, proofreading, and writing skills; Excellent command of at least two
official languages (including English); Project Management skills; Technical
skills; Problem solving and Analysis; Presentation skills; Good Communication
and interpersonal relations; Computer Literacy; Planning and organising skills;
Research skills.
DUTIES : To ensure that a multilingual technical terminology service is rendered in the
department; Create and compile source language material for terminology;
Compile target language content in the department; Plan and Coordinate
terminology projects; Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mnisi Tel No: (012) 441 3851
POST 27/182 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITING (SESOTHO) REF
NO: DSAC-04/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Studies, Linguistics,
Translation and Interpreting Studies majoring in the relevant language and/or
translation, or relevant language qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at
least 2 years as a Language Practitioner in the translating environment;
Successful completion of a departmental Sesotho translation and editing test;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations; Knowledge and understanding of
relevant language policies and prescripts; Knowledge of translation/
editing/language administration; Excellent command of at least two official
languages including English; Strong editing, proofreading, and writing skills;
Good communication interpersonal relations; Ability to translate and edit text
electronically.
DUTIES : To promote access to information by providing translation and editing services;
Translating official documents from English into Sesotho and vice versa;
proofreading, checking and editing translated documents Conduct research
and develop terminology Provide administrative support and liaison service;
Supervision of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Gaffane Tel No: (012) 441 3256
POST 27/183 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITING (SISWATI) REF
NO: DSAC-05/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
83
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Studies, Linguistics,
Translation and Interpreting Studies majoring in the relevant language and/or
translation, or relevant language qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at
least 2 years as a Language Practitioner in the translating environment;
Successful completion of a departmental Siswati translation and editing test;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations; Knowledge and understanding of
relevant language policies and prescripts; Knowledge of translation/
editing/language administration; Excellent command of at least two official
languages including English; Strong editing, proofreading, and writing skills;
Good communication interpersonal relations; Ability to translate and edit text
electronically.
DUTIES : To promote access to information by providing translation and editing services
Translating official documents from English into Siswati and vice versa;
Proofreading, checking and editing translated documents; Conduct research
and develop terminology; Provide administrative support and liaison service;
Supervision of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Gaffane Tel No: (012) 441 3256
POST 27/184 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GRAPHIC DESIGN REF NO: DSAC-06/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Graphic Design, Animation Visual
Communication Design, Multimedia Design, or relevant Graphic Design
qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years as a Senior/ Officer
level in Graphic Design and Animation environment; Knowledge of Public
Service Regulation; General knowledge of government programmes;
Knowledge of Research and editing; Knowledge of branding and Visual
Identity; Must be proficient in the use of an Apple Macintosh computer,
proficient in Adobe illustrator, photoshop qualXpress an InDesign (Web3-D
skills) and writing skills); Knowledge of topography and printing; Knowledge of
media, advertising, public relations media buying and marketing and branding;
Presentation skills, Good communication and Interpersonal relations, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the Design and layout of communication products in the Department;
Collaborate with departmental employees to understand communication
objectives and design needs; Provide support in the design and layout of the
Annual Report, Strategic Plan, and other departmental publications; Provide
advice on the design of special promotional materials, programme-related
content, and corporate communication initiatives within the Department;
Support product development and improvement by creating design concepts,
sample layouts, and multimedia products in line with the departmental
Corporate Identity Manual.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Velaphi Tel No: (012) 441 3010
POST 27/185 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INSPECTIONS REF NO: DSAC-07/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Records and Archives Management,
Information Science, Library and Information Science or relevant Archival
qualification; Valid Driver’s License; 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2
years at an Archivist level in Records and Archives Management environment;
Knowledge of Public Services Regulations, Acts, and procedures; Knowledge
in Archives Management; Knowledge in Record Management; Understanding
of inspection services; Knowledge of relevant policies and prescripts; Training
and mentoring skills; Presentation skills; Good Communication and
interpersonal relations; Planning and Organising skills; Problem Solving &
Analysis; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure that governmental bodies implement and maintain sound records
management practices; Coordinate, Monitor, conduct and report on
inspections of public records in the custody of governmental bodies;
Coordinate and conduct Records Management Training; Evaluate procedure
84
manuals, publications, policies, and training materials; Advise governmental
bodies on records management prescripts and practices; Assist with
coordinating records management awareness programmes and National
Records Management Forum; Control and administer user access within the
NAAIRS database system; Monitor NARSSA website; Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Thulisile Lemekoana Tel No: (012) 441 3554
POST 27/186 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OUTREACH AND PUBLICATIONS REF NO:
DSAC-08/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Archival studies/ Library and
Information Science/ Archives Management/ Heritage Studies or relevant
Archival qualification. 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years at an
Archivist level in Public Programmes, Outreach, Marketing or in an Archives
environment. Knowledge of Public Service Regulation. Knowledge and
understanding of the National Archives Act and other relevant legislation which
impacts on Client Services and/or the work of the National Archives.
Knowledge of Training strategies, methods and best practices. Knowledge and
understanding of public programmes and outreach. Knowledge of South
African Heritage Landscape. Knowledge of Legislative Framework. Project
management skills and experience. Presentation Skills. Good communication
and interpersonal relations. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate Outreach and Public Programmes of the National Archives of South
Africa. Coordinate and manage guided tours and official visits to the National
Archives; Coordinate and organize the Annual National Archives Awareness
Week and related activities; Provide secretarial and administrative support to
the National and Provincial Heads Archives Forum (NPHAF); Coordinate and
manage the National Archives’ Oral History Programme; Provide Secretarial
support to the Oral History Association of South Africa (OHASA); Coordinate,
organize and manage project related to the Oral History Conference;
Coordinate the Publications Programmes; Draft and update content on the
NAAIRS website; Draft and submit National Archives Annual Reports; Maintain
a publication calendar and track submission deadlines; Coordinate Exhibitions;
Conceptualization of exhibitions themes and content; Coordinate the design,
layout, and visual presentation of exhibitions; Manage exhibition materials,
including preservation of archival items used for display; Develop promotional
materials and support communication around exhibitions; Supervisor
Subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Languza Tel No: (012) 441 3163
POST 27/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SENSITIVE RECORDS, PAIA AND RELATED
LEGISLATION REF NO: DSAC-09/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Records Management, Information
Science, Public Administration, or relevant Records qualification; Completion
of training on MISS will be an added advantage; 2-3 years relevant experience
at least 2 years at an Archivist level in Records Management environment;
Knowledge of records management principles governing sensitive and
classified records (e.g. National Archives and Records Service Act);
Knowledge of PAIA (Promotion of Access to Information Act) and other records-
related legislation; Knowledge of information security standards and
confidentiality protocols; Knowledge and understanding of the Minimum
Information Security Standard (MISS), Knowledge of electronic document and
records management systems (EDRMS); Knowledge of electronic document
and records management systems (EDRMS); Knowledge of organizational
governance frameworks and public sector accountability standards;
Presentation skills. Good communication and Interpersonal relations; Problem
Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Computer
literacy.
85
DUTIES : Receive and process Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA)
Applications; Provide sensitive records to approved applicants within the 30-
day timeframe; Facilitate and Control Access to the Truth and Reconciliation
Commission (TRC) records; Liaise with Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding
TRC applications; Ensure compliance with access and confidentiality protocols
for sensitive TRC records. Respond to queries related to TRC records. Perform
quality checks on TRC records; Provide security measures in accordance with
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS); Complete registers in
accordance with MISS requirements for all sensitive records that leave the
premises; Assist researchers using the Sensitive Records Reading Room;
Maintain a detailed list of all classified records that leave the premises; Assist
with implementing security measures during maintenance activities in the
Sensitive Records Reading Room and relevant strongrooms; Capture, verify
and check the source documents; Add archival description in AtoM by
capturing, verifying and checking of source documents; Add authority records
in AtoM by capturing, verifying and checking of source documents; Verify and
check archival descriptions already in AtoM for accuracy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Languza Tel No: (012) 441 3163
POST 27/188 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRONG ROOM MAINTENANCE
(PRESERVATION) REF NO: DSAC-10/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Archival studies/Information
Science/Records Management or relevant Archival qualification; 2-3 years
relevant experience at least 2 years at an Archivist level in Preservation
environment; Knowledge of Public Service Regulation; Knowledge and
understanding of International Standards on Care of Archival Material;
Knowledge of Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) operations;
Knowledge of facilities maintenance; Preservation Planning; Project
Management skills; Good Communication and interpersonal relations;
Presentation skills; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Administer and maintain the storage of collections in the Strong Rooms of the
National Archives; Monitor environmental conditions (e.g. temperature,
humidity) to ensure compliance with preservation standards; Support the
development and the implementation of an integrated pest management
strategy; Conduct inspections to identify risks in the strong room; Monitor the
collections in the strong rooms; Coordinate and manage the routine cleaning
of strong rooms (housekeeping); Assist with the implementation of disaster
preparedness and response procedures in the strong room; Assist with the
Development of the Preservation Guidelines and Procedures; Gather and
review information on current preservation practices; Conduct basic research
on national and international standards for archival preservation; Assist in
developing institutional standards and guidelines for Storage and handling of
Archival Materials; Coordinate the implementation of the disaster management
plan for NARSSA; Conduct risk assessment and condition assessment of
archival collections; Assist in developing, implementing and reviewing the
disaster plan; Conduct training for salvage operations for records after disaster;
Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Thulisile Lemekoana Tel No: (012) 441 3554
POST 27/189 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY SPORT DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DSAC-11/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) / Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Sport Management, Sport and
Recreation Management, Sport Science, Sport Administration, Sport
Development or relevant Sport qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at
least 2 years as a Sport and Recreation Coordinator/ Sport Promotion Officer
level in sport and recreation environment; Valid driver’s license; willingness to
86
travel; Knowledge and understanding of departmental policies and procedures;
Understanding of sport landscape; Knowledge of the South African sporting
environment; Understanding of National and Provincial sport body structures
and operations; Planning and organising skills; Good communication and
interpersonal relations; Project Management skills; Computer Literacy;
Problem solving skills; Analytical and thinking skills
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of a framework to increase participants in
community sport and recreation activities; Coordinate and assist in the
development of a framework to increase participation from specific target
groups in sport and recreation activities; Collaborate with communities and
local authorities to promote inclusive sport and recreation programs; Assist in
implementing interventions aimed at increasing participation from specific
target groups in sport and recreation activities; Conduct outreach and
awareness campaigns to encourage participation; Assist in monitoring and
evaluating the increase in participation from specific target groups in sport and
recreation activities; Assist with the development of policies and delivery
mechanisms aimed increasing participants in sport and recreation; Establish a
monitoring schedule and implement measures; Conduct desktop and physical
monitoring of performance information against pre-determined target; Monitor
provincial performance against business plan targets; Meet with provincial
coordinators to discuss progress on implementation of targets; Review and
assess provincial business plans for compliance with the requirements of the
grant framework; Liaise with stakeholders relevant to community sport and
recreation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Maake Tel No: (012) 441 3060
87
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at Tourism House,
17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025, 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file, indicating the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Failure to do so, your application being disqualified. Applications quoting
the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each advertised post must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C, and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered, and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following the communication
from Human Resources, and such qualifications (s) and other related
documents (s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a (1) practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical
and generic requirements, and (2) an ethical conduct test. Candidates will
further be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification, and employment
verification). Some of the interviewed candidates for Senior Management level
vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day competency assessment that will test
generic competencies. Appointment will be subject to the signing of the
performance agreement, employment contract, and annual financial
disclosure, and must attain a security clearance applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/190 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DT 02/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6) in Commerce,
Financial Management, Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management.
3-5 years’ relevant experience in a supervisory role. Knowledge of Supply
88
Chain Management. Leadership skills. Good communication skills. Ability to
delegate and empower staff. Good planning and execution skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the compilation of
a comprehensive demand plans; compiling, implementing and reporting on the
operational and risk plans related to Demand Management and providing
monthly management reports; monitoring implementation and updating the
demand plan as per project estimated date and cost; compiling and maintaining
the Annual Departmental Procurement Plan; verifying of suppliers to comply
with the BEE requirements; controlling the rotation of suppliers to ensure equal
opportunities; evaluating the Vendor performance and the review thereof on
the supplier Database; evaluating and recommending IT related procurement
via EDMS; evaluating and recommending IT related procurement via EDMS;
facilitating and issuing of orders for goods and services (system and manual);
facilitating payment of goods and services to the service providers; facilitating
delivery of store stock in the warehouse; verifying and signing off the year plan
for the warehouse stocktaking; managing the conducting of stocktaking;
ensuring and signing off stocktaking reports; ensuring the approval of balance
adjustments; enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the
contracts; authorising/ certifying correctness of the accrual report;
consolidating commitment and accrual report for the financial year end;
managing commitment and accrual to the minimum level; managing 0-9 filing;
providing inputs to financial statements in terms of inventory, accruals and
commitments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel No: (012) 444 6773
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/191 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF NO: DT 03/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, (suitable salary will be determined in
accordance with the OSD determination), (Notch and All-inclusive
remuneration package consisting of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB qualification. At least 8 years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of the PFMA.
Knowledge of Civil Procedure (high court and magistrate court rules.
Knowledge of PAJA, PAIA, and POPIA. Knowledge of Contracts and
Legislation. Analytical thinking skills. Experience in legal drafting. Good verbal
and communication skills. Project management skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for researching the applicability
of legal principles on legal opinion; conducting research on applicable policy,
legislation and legal principles with legal opinions; formulating questions to be
answered on legal opinions; studying and citing relevant cases on aspects
related to legal opinions; providing recommendation and conclusion within
permissible legal prescripts; consulting clients to verify requests for opinion and
contents of the opinion upon finalisation; ascertaining whether legislation is in
accordance with principle of drafting and interpretation of statute; ascertaining
that the intentions of the department and its entities are reflected in proposed
or amendment bills; facilitating drafting of cabinet memorandums; responding
to legal opinion aspects that arise during public hearings and parliamentary
sessions; establishing if the department should litigate or defend a matter;
consulting with relevant line functions; providing evidence in regard to possible
settlement and negotiating settlements with opponents; preparing instructions
to State Attorneys and making recommendations for appointment of suitable
Advocates where necessary; monitoring court cases from inception to
finalisation; reviewing all pleadings at all stages for the court case as per court
rules; exploring alternative dispute resolution options for each court case;
ensuring that briefings are prepared and court orders are implementing
effectively; drafting and verifying contracts and international agreements;
conducting research on applicable policy, legislation or regulation to be
followed; determining if the contract is legal and whether it reflects the intention
of the department; liaising with all stakeholders involved in the contract and
negotiating on final control; certifying contracts and verifying consistency
89
between instructions and the content of the contract; providing inputs into the
strategic planning of the Directorate/ Chief Directorate and executing of the
operational plan; providing supervision of Legal Administration Officers in the
sub-directorate; submitting monthly and quarterly reports to the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Letsoalo Tel No: (012) 444 6313; Mr D Manngo Tel No: (012) 444 6319
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment3@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/192 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DT 04 /2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and 3 years Bachelor’s degree or National Diploma in
Risk management/Accounting/Internal Audit/Business management or related
field. A postgraduate qualification in Risk Management will be an added
advantage. 3-5 years’ experience in risk and integrity environment. Valid Code
B drivers’ licence, registration with the Institute of Risk Management of South
Africa (IRMSA) and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners South African
Chapter (ACFESA) would be an added advantage. Sound working knowledge
of the legislative requirements relating to ERM. Good understanding of
integrated Risk Management principles and practices. Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Understanding of ISO 22301 and ISO
22313 Frameworks. Knowledge of good practice guidance on business
continuity management. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Understanding
Public Service Regulations. Good communication skills (written and spoken).
Good computer literacy and use of standard packages. Research and project
management skills. Ability to liaise with and coordinate stakeholder
engagements. Knowledge of policy development, analysis and
implementation. Organisational, planning and co-ordination skills. Facilitation
and presentation skills. Management and organisational skills. Negotiation and
consultation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating and providing
technical and administrative support on corporate governance, departmental
enterprise risk management, promotion of the financial disclosure framework,
developing and monitoring of the implementation of the Business Continuity
Plan, implementation of the Code of Conduct and the development and
maintenance of the internal anti-corruption systems. Developing and reviewing
framework for Enterprise Risk Management. Benchmarking with the best
practices in Risk Management to review the Risk Management Frameworks.
Developing the Draft Risk Management Framework. Implementing the
reviewed Risk Management Framework. Developing the risk appetite and
tolerance framework. Facilitating the development of the departmental
Combined Assurance Plan. Providing secretariat services to the Risk
Management Committee (RMC). Conducting and facilitate the departmental
risk and fraud identification and assessment workshops. Developing and
reviewing Anti-Fraud and Corruption Prevention Framework. Reviewing the
Ant-Fraud and Corruption framework in line with relevant prescripts and
guidelines. Analysing the corruption and fraud cases to inform the Fraud
Prevention Plan and conducting awareness to the employees of the
Department on Fraud Prevention, Enterprise Risk and Integrity Management’s-
facilitate the procurement of promotional material. Drafting of progress status
report on cases of fraud and corruption against the department on to be
presented to the Risk Management and Audit Committees on quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SS Madubanya Tel No: (012) 444 6305
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment4@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/193 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR4) REF NO: DT 06/2025
SALARY : R388 392 – R 444 075 per annum, excluding benefits, (suitable salary will be
determined in accordance with the OSD determination)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB qualification. At least 5 years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of the PFMA.
90
Knowledge of Civil Procedure (high court and magistrate court rules).
Knowledge of PAJA, PAIA and POPIA. Knowledge of Contracts and
Legislation. Analytical thinking skills. Experience in legal drafting. Good verbal
and communication skills. Project management skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for researching the applicability
of legal principles on legal opinion; conducting research on applicable policy,
legislation and legal principles with legal opinions; formulating questions to be
answered on legal opinions; studying and citing relevant cases on aspects
related to legal opinions; providing recommendations and conclusion within
permissible legal prescripts; consulting clients to verify requests for opinion and
contents of the opinion upon finalisation; ascertaining whether legislation is in
accordance with principle of drafting and interpretation of statute; ascertaining
that the intentions of the department and its entities are reflected in proposed
or amendment bills; facilitating drafting of cabinet memorandums; responding
to legal opinion aspects that arise during public hearings and parliamentary
sessions; establishing if the department should litigate or defend a matter;
consulting with relevant line functions; providing evidence in regard to possible
settlement and negotiating settlements with opponents; preparing instructions
to State Attorneys and making recommendations for appointment of suitable
Advocates where necessary; monitoring court cases from inception to
finalisation; reviewing all pleadings at all stages for the court case as per court
rules; exploring alternative dispute resolution options for each court case;
ensuring that briefings are prepared and court orders are implementing
effectively; drafting and vetting contracts and international agreements;
conducting research on applicable policy, legislation or regulation to be
followed; determining if the contract is legal and whether it reflects the intention
of the department; liaising with stakeholders on legal interventions; drafting
and/or edit legal correspondence on all legal administrative enquiries;
conducting awareness on the legal interventions; providing inputs into the
strategic planning of the Directorate/ Chief Directorate and executing of the
operational plan; submitting monthly and quarterly reports to the Senior Legal
Administration Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Letsoalo Tel No: (012) 444 6313; Mr D Manngo Tel No: (012) 444 6319
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment6@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/194 : PERSONNAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DT 05/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) or equivalent qualification.3-5 years’ experience
in rendering support services at senior management level. Knowledge of
relevant acts and prescripts. Leadership management, Project management
and financial management skills. Excellent communication skills verbal and
written. Computer literacy. Good telephone etiquette. Ability to maintain
confidentiality. High level of reliability. Ability to work independently without
supervision. Administration skills with sound organisational skills. Skills and
Attributes: Knowledge of relevant acts and prescripts. Computer literate. Basic
written and communication skills. High level of reliability. Sound organisational
skills. Good telephone etiquette. Ability to communicate with people at different
levels and different backgrounds. Ability to act with confidentiality. Financial
management skills. Office Management skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to manage and record the
engagements of the senior manager. Compile and update scheduled
appointments. Ensuring flow of information and documents to and from the
office of the manager. Compiles schedule of appointments. Providing a
secretarial/receptionist support services to the manager; receiving telephone
calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior manager,
discretion is required to decide to whom the calls should be forwarded. In the
process the incumbent should decide some enquiries; recording engagements
of the Senior Manager; utilising discretion to decide whether to accept/decline
or refer to other employees’ request for meetings, based on the assessed
importance and urgency of the matter; rendering administrative support
services; ensuring the effective flow of information and documents to and from
the office of the manager; ensuring safekeeping of all documentations in the
office of the manager in line with the relevant legislations and policies; obtaining
91
inputs e.g (progress reports, monthly reports, management reports);
responding to enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders;
drafting documents as and when required. Filling of documents for the
manager and unit as and when required; collecting, analysing and collating
information requested by the manager; managing leave and assets register for
the unit; operating and ensuring that office equipment is in good working order
e.g photocopier and printing machines; typing of documents as and when
required; providing support to senior manager regarding meetings, workshops,
events and accommodation; preparing document packs required for meetings,
conferences, team-building sessions and workshops for Managers;
scrutinising documents to determine actions/information/other documents
required for meetings; collecting and compiling all necessary documents for
the manager to inform her/him on the content; recording minutes/decisions and
communicating to relevant role-players and following-up on progress made;
preparing briefing notes for the manager as required; coordinating logistical
arrangements for meetings when required; ensuring that travel arrangements
are well coordinated; supporting the manager with the administration of the
budget; collecting and coordinating all documents that relate to the manager ‘s
budget; assisting with processing of travel claims for the Manager e.g. S&T and
Kilometre claims; assisting manager in determining funding requirements for
purposes of MTEF submissions; keeping record of expenditure commitments,
monitoring expenditure and alerting manager of possible over and under
spending; checking and correlating BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is
allocated correctly; identifying the need to move funds between items,
consulting with the manager and compiling draft memos for this purpose;
comparing the MTEF allocations with the requested budget and informing the
manager of changes; handling the procurement of standard items for the
activities of the manager and the unit like stationery, refreshments etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Koena Tel No: (012) 444 6154
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment5@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/195 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: CABINET AND CLUSTER COORDINATOR REF
NO: DT 07/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. 0-1 year experience in rendering support
services. Interpersonal relation skills. Ability to communicate well with different
people at different levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone
etiquette. Sound organisational skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
Good grooming and presentation skills. Ability to work independently without
supervision. Self-motivated. Knowledge of relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge of financial
management. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for rendering administrative
support services to the sub-directorate. Recording, organising, storing and
retrieving correspondence for cabinet, FOSAD Cluster and implementation
forums. Handling routine enquiries e.g. referrals, memos, letters for cabinet,
FOSAD Cluster and implementation forums. Distributing cabinet documents
and FOSAD Cluster package to various stakeholders as required. Updating
registers. Making photocopies and receiving or sending facsimiles. Keeping
and mailing the filling system for the sub directorate cabinet and cluster
coordination. Typing letters and or other correspondence when required.
Providing logistical and administration support. Keeping and maintaining the
incoming and outgoing documents register of the components. Handling the
procurement of IT equipment’s, stationery and other items. Providing personnel
administration and clerical support within the components. Maintaining a leave
register for the component. Keeping and maintaining the attendance register
and arranging travel, accommodation for the components. Arranging venues
for the meeting of the sub directorate. Providing financial administration
support services in the component. Capturing and updating expenditure in
components. Checking the correctness of substances and travel claims of
officials and submitting to the manager for approval. Obtaining quotations,
completing procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items.
Keeping and maintaining the assets register of the components.
92
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Makhubedu Tel No: (012) 444 6376
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment7@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/196 : RECEPTIONIST (SECURITY SERVICES) REF NO: DT 08/2025
SALARY : R228 32 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 certificate. Minimum of 2 years’ experience in reception and
customer services. Experience in customer care. Ability to promote Batho Pele
principles. Good communication skills. Ability to work individually and in team.
Ability to work under pressure within the environment of the reception. Conflict
management skills. Good interpersonal relations. Computer literacy. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for greeting, identifying and
directing visitors, and arrange for escort, verifying identification of incoming
visitors, issuing visitors card, maintaining visitor logs and related documents,
recording incoming and outgoing mail, compiling visitor statistics, ensuring that
all security equipment at the reception is operational and reporting defects to
maintenance unit/chief security officer, directing visitors to relevant information
desk; referring visitors to relevant officials for assistance, screening visitors
prior to referral.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Benadie Tel No: (012) 444 6144
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment8@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/197 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: TRANSPORT SERVICES REF NO: DT 09/2025
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ Abet level 4 coupled with 1-2 years working experience. A valid un-
expired SA driver’s licence. Knowledge of relevant acts and prescripts,
Transport circular 4 of 2000, National Road and Traffic act of 1996, Public
Service Act and Regulation. PFMA Act of 1999. Excellent driving skills with
good communication skills (verbal and Writing). Ability to read maps and use
GPS to navigate locations. Time Management skills, Good interpersonal skills,
computer literate, ability to work under pressure with difficult customers. Sense
of loyalty and responsibility. Ability to solve conflict.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for driving light and medium motor
vehicles. Collecting, distributing and delivering of documents to and from
various departments and other areas. Shuttling employees to various
destinations for official purposes. Taking vehicles for maintenance and/or
repairs. Conducting vehicle inspection before and after the usage. Arranging
for the cleaning of vehicles. Assisting with verification of vehicle registers and
transport requisition forms. Assisting with the checking of logbooks. Making
Copies and e-mailing transport documents. Assisting with transport filling and
signing delivery notes services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Dhevaseelan Tel No: (012) 444 6223
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment9@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/198 : CLEANER REF NO: DT 10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Abet Level 4 or Grade 12 certificate. Knowledge of cleaning procedures. Good
communication skills. Basic writing skills. Good interpersonal skills. Previous
experience in cleaning will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for dusting and polishing office
furniture, sweeping, and mopping tile floors, vacuuming carpets, cleaning glass
doors, emptying/ washing dustbins and replacing bin liners, relieving on other
floors, reporting broken cleaning machines and equipment, refilling hand wash
liquid soap, replacing toilet papers and handtowels, clean, wash & disinfect
toilet bowls, urinals and seats, emptying and washing waste bins, cleaning
93
mirrors and wall tiles, cleaning of boardrooms and public area, sweeping and
mopping tiled floors on public areas, removing refuse from public areas,
cleaning reception area, all entrances, stairs, corridors, lifts and lifts lobbies,
cleaning microwave and fridges in the kitchen, Place wet floor sign,
sweeping/mopping floor and wall tiles in the kitchen.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Molefe Tel No: (012) 444 6115
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment10@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: coloured males and white males as well as youth and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
94
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/199 : SUPPLY CHAIN CONTRACT PROFESSIONAL REF NO: 150825/01
Branch: Financial Management Services
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 9. Professional procurement and
SCM registration (e.g. MCIPS) or equivalent. Five (5) years of experience at a
senior managerial level. Five (5) years experience in infrastructure
procurement and Supply Chain Management. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Thorough knowledge of internationally recognized
body of knowledge on best practice strategic infrastructure procurement and
SCM. Full knowledge of all applicable SCM regulations and guidelines in South
Africa. Proven ability to drive change in a complex environment and ensure
implementation of the Department’s procurement strategies. Framework for
managing performance information. Business strategy transaction and
alignment. Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent communication skills both
(verbal and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Develop and provide guidance in the implementation of appropriate
infrastructure procurement strategies. Identify and implement measures across
the SCM value chain to ensure that all SCM for the Department’s construction
unit consisting of more than 3000 employees is sufficiently effective and
efficient for the construction unit. Provides expert procurement advice,
guidance and recommendations to meet the procurement needs of the
Department. Works closely with all the line managers to ensure Departmental
procurement needs are met. Lead and manage the sourcing process in the
Department. Manages all sourcing activities in the Department by analysing
95
requirements, developing selection tools and methods that maximize chances
to find best source of procurement and directs the work of evaluation
committee. Provides contracting expert advice and recommendations on
contract drafting and contract lifecycle management. Monitor and review
progress of contractual agreements, coordinates contract extension or
renewal, and as appropriate, reviews invoices, and resolves any problems that
arise. Provides advice to the department on the proper use of the various
systems used for procurement activities. Provides guidance and
recommendations on the design of training sessions on the various systems to
educate the Department on the proper use of those systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Moatshe Tel No: (012) 336 7647
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/200 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (REGISTRAR) (MR 5) REF NO:
150825/02
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Legal Services
Dir: Water Tribunal
SALARY : R464 634 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or equivalent legal qualification on NQF7. At least eight (8)
years’ appropriate post qualification legal experience. Ability to draft legal
documents that provide clear motivation / justification for a particular position
pertaining to the case, also proposing the approach to be followed to ensure
success in this regard. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act
and Regulations, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act and Promotion of
Access to Information Act. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Constitutional Law, Promotion of Access to Information Act and
Administrative Law. An ability to interpret legislation, good analytical and
research skills, good verbal and written communication skills in English, good
drafting skills, computer literacy, an ability to work in a team, a pro-active,
problem-solving and positive attitude and an ability to adhere to deadlines are
essential.
DUTIES : Render legal advisory services on diverse legal issues to the Minister, the
Director-General and officials of the Department. Conduct research that will
provide information and case law relevant to the legal matter at hand and
present motivation/ proposals on how the specific case should be approached
to obtain a desirable/ justifiable outcome / result. Manage litigation instituted by
and against the Department, including water tribunal appeals. Conduct
Legislative review, drafting of Bills, subordinate legislation and regulations.
Provide legal support, advice, drafting and vetting of contract. Advise the client
on possible courses of action during the consultation process in relation to legal
entitlement and client’s instruction. Document interview and all advice given
during legal consultation in writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ratshisusu Tel No: (012) 336 7705
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 27/201 : CHIEF ASSISTANCE TECHNICAL OFFICER (SCIENTIFIC SUPPORT) REF
NO: 150825/03
Branch: Water Resource Management: Head Office
Sd: Hydrological Information
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior / Grade 12 certificate with Mathematics / Mathematics Literacy /
Science. Six (6) to ten (10) years’ experience in surface or groundwater
technical environment i.e. collecting and processing of water related data. High
level in computer literacy in Microsoft Excel and Word. Ability to use data
management system (HYDSTRA). Knowledge of surface water monitoring
instruments and data processing and administration. Knowledge and
understanding of hydrological or geo-hydrological processes and the relevant
96
database and or systems. Knowledge of relevant equipment’s and OHS.
Understanding of tendering processes, purchasing of instruments and
materials. Problem solving and analysis. Good interpersonal relations,
organizational skills, technical report writing skills and understanding of
relevant software. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Assist in the auditing of hydrological data (stream flow data / surface water
levels data, evaporation and rainfall data etc). Must be able to use data and
information systems (HYDSTRA) to perform duties (data auditing, data quality
control and data dissemination). Provide technical assistance in the archiving
of hydrological data. Provide technical support to the regions thereby ensuring
that good quality data is archived by the regions and head office. Assist with
dissemination of hydrological data and information to various stakeholders.
Assist in dam balance calculation and verification of dam recipes. Assist in the
compilation of state of national dams, bulletin (report) on a weekly basis and
ensure timely circulation and publication to internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Nemaxwi Tel No: (012) 336 8332
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 27/202 : LIBRARIAN REF NO: 150825/04
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Dir: Knowledge Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Library Science / Information Science. Two
(2) to (4) four years’ experience in library sciences. Knowledge in monitoring
the circulation of library resources. Knowledge of library information science
matters. Knowledge and understanding in handling interlibrary loans.
Understanding in tracking bibliographic records. Knowledge of organisational
and government structures. Knowledge of procedures and processes.
Knowledge of government regulations, practice notes, circulars, and policy
frameworks. Understanding of delegation authority. Financial management
and knowledge of PFMA. Client orientation and customer focus. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct. Knowledge of analytical procedures.
DUTIES : Identify the appropriate library resource needs. Analyse and sort library
materials according to the applicable library system. Compare selections with
card catalogue / electronic records. Implement good practices of maintaining
library books and information. Review material from publisher catalogues and
various database. Collect and secure material for official publications
depositories. Pre-select and display library material. Inform users of special
library collection. Facilitation of contracts for online subscriptions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MC Mokhele Tel No: (012) 336 8284
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
97
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email. All attachments for
online application must include an application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF
and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application
will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15 MB).
General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Mr Joseph Mahlangu 012
359 0238/ Mr Amukelani Misunwa Tel No: (012) 359 0240
CLOSING DATE : 22 August 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83
application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection
committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South African
applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond
“Yes “or “No“ to the question whether you are conducting business with the
state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit Declaration
form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the application.
It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the
question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit
the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR. Non-
RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job as part of the selection process, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Successful
candidates shall be required to enter into performance agreement within three
(3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1)
month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of
employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be
made on the first notch of the advertised salary level. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to personal security vetting. Note that in terms of the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the
protection of applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain
applicants’ personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection
processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal information against
access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The
Department is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into
98
consideration and preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/203 : DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE AND REGULATIONS FOR THE RIGHTS OF
YOUTH REF NO: DWYPD/016/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), fully inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Degree (NQF level 7) qualifications in Social Science,
Development Science/ Economics as recognised by SAQA. Certificate of
successful completion of National School of the Government’s SMS Pre-Entry
programme prior appointment. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at
Middle/Senior Managerial level. A valid driver’s licence. Proven experience in
Youth Development; Youth Advocacy and Mainstreaming; Project,
Stakeholder, and Communication Management. Knowledge of Government
legislation and policies; Youth Development legislation, policies, framework,
strategies and prescripts applicable to the functions of the Directorate;
Mandate and strategic objectives of the department; PFMA and Treasury
Regulations applicable to the functions of the branch; Batho Pele principles
and application thereof; Skills: Youth and Gender diversities awareness;
Effective report writing, verbal and written communication skills, People
management and empowerment; Financial management; Problem solving and
analysis; Service delivery innovation; Client orientation and customer focus;
Strategic capabilities and leadership; Impact and influence; Networking and
relationship building; Research and knowledge management; Transformation
and Change Management; Computer literacy (MS Office). Personal Attributes.
Ethical behaviour; Honestly and Integrity; Emotional Intelligence; Passion and
Achievement driven; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to maintain
confidentiality of information; Respect for copyrights/ aversion to plagiarism.
DUTIES : Develop Institutional Mechanism for advancing youth programmes and
participate in stakeholder initiatives advocating for the socio-economic
empowerment. Foster and manage partnerships with civil society
organisations, government and corporate for implementation of youth socio-
economic development through outreach initiatives; design and manage
stakeholders in outreach initiatives that promote socio-economic
empowerment of young people; Create project plan for implementation plan of
outreach initiatives; Initiate, manage and strengthen partnerships across
sectors; Coordinate and co-host youth month activities. Develop and finalise
National Youth Machinery framework. Mobilise young people in society to
become active agents for social change and building leadership capacity;
Identify and manage capacity building initiatives and incorporate them into the
activities for capacity building for young people; Integrate and mainstream
programmes for young people across sectors in all spheres. Provide technical
support to political principals to make informed decisions. Develop concept
documents, memoranda, and briefing notes for the DG, Deputy Minister and
the Minister; Make inputs into strategic documents that impacts on youths,
inclusive of young women and persons with disabilities; Develop documents to
Cabinet and Parliament; Provide technical support for national and
international youth engagements. Support the DG and political principals on
national and international youth engagements. Compile the country reports
and follow up on obligations. Coordinate and report on the National Youth
Machinery Meetings (NYM). Manage the NYM, Support the Provincial and
Local Youth Machineries; Provide oversight of the National Youth Development
Agency (NYDA). Compile quarterly NYDA Monitoring reports; Conduct NYDA
site visits; Quality assures various NYDA documents; Facilitate NYDA quarterly
tranche payments; Develop and Manage DWYPD-NYDA Shareholder
Compact.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Bernice Hlagala at (060) 534 0656
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment02@dwypd.gov.za
99
ANNEXURE O
THE PRESIDENCY
The Presidency is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representivity will receive preference. Candidates will be subjected to a security clearance up to
the level of “Top Secret”.
APPLICATIONS : The Presidency, Private Bag X1000, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at
Government Avenue, Union Buildings, Pretoria or by email:
applications@presidency.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr Gavin Mahlangu
CLOSING DATE : 22 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must include only Two (2) documents (a detailed Curriculum Vitae
and a fully completed and signed new Z83 Form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the Department of Public Service and Administration
(DPSA) website link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ . These two
documents must be submitted as a single scanned document (One PDF
attachment). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the highest required
qualifications as well as a driver’ s licence where necessary. Failure to do so
will result in your application being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all
foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation report (only when shortlisted). Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
Due to the large number of applications we envisage to receive,
correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only, applications will
however be acknowledged by auto response. Should you not be contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment
process, a moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department be
affected by any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or
reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel the
recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the future.
Important: The Department reserves the right not to fill a position. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to be available for interviews at a date and time as
determined by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks, which may include social media profiles of the
shortlisted candidates and pre-employment screening to determine the
suitability of a person for employment. Applicants must declare any pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application
will not be considered and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will
be required to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the
candidate and The Presidency. The successful candidate will be subjected to
reference checks and a security clearance up to the level of “Top Secret”.
OTHER POST
POST 27/204 : INDEPENDENT/EXTERNAL CHAIRPERSON OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The Presidency is seeking an eligible candidate to serve as
Independent/External Chairperson in the Presidency’s Risk Management
Committee. The Presidency as a Government Institution is required, in terms
of Section 38B(I)(a)(i) of the Public Finance Management Act, to implement
and maintain "effective, efficient and transparent systems of financial, risk
management and internal control. Minimum Requirements: An independent
external person, with extensive knowledge of the relevant regulations and
prescripts including the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, IS0 31000, the King IV Report on Corporate Governance, COSO
100
and Public Sector Risk Management Framework. Experience in Strategic
Planning, Stakeholder relations / management, Risk Management, Financial
Management, Internal Control, Compliance, Anti-Fraud and Corruption,
Business Continuity and Auditing. Experience and suitable skills in Risk
Governance, Compliance Management and Ethics Management.
Experience/know how in designing, implementing and monitoring Business
Continuity Management strategies. Experience in serving in oversight
committees. Knowledge and or experience in the public sector will be an added
advantage. Must be a member of a professional body, preferably in Risk
Management.
DUTIES : The Chairperson: The candidate will chair the Department’s Risk Management
Committee and provide an oversight role in ensuring that the Risk Management
Committee (RMC) functions properly. Providing support to the Chief Risk
Officer. Monitoring the implementation of risk management strategy within The
Presidency. Ensuring that the identified risk mitigation strategies employed by
The Presidency are evaluated for their effectiveness. Assisting in reviewing risk
management action plans to be instituted and ensuring compliance with such
plans. Assisting in integrating risk management into planning, monitoring and
reporting processes. Prepare and present the Risk Management Chairperson’s
Report to the Audit Committee and Accounting Officer, other management
committees / other oversight structures and the Audit Committee on a quarterly
basis. Assisting the department in ensuring that it improves its risk maturity
level. Assisting the department institution in the development of the most
effective measures to prevent, detect and investigate fraud and corruption.
Serving as standing invitee of the Audit Committee and Ethics Committee. With
regard to management of the Committee: Take all reasonable steps to ensure
that the Committee fulfils its obligations and responsibilities. Call and chair
quarterly meetings and special meetings. Set the agenda for each Committee
meeting with the Chief Risk Officer. Maintain an ethical and responsible
decision-making framework at Committee level and address any potentially
unethical or dishonest situations or potential conflict of interest brought to
his/her attention in a timely and efficient manner. Provide overall leadership to
the Committee without limiting the principles of collective responsibilities of
Committee decisions. Take all reasonable steps to encourage participation of
all Committee Members in the Committee meetings and to facilitate free and
constructive discussion. Maintain a good working relationship with the
Secretariat to ensure that tasks to be completed between meetings are
completed. Term Of Office: The duration of the appointment of the Chairperson
is for three (3) years from the date of appointment, subject to renewal at the
discretion of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Gavin Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 300 5378
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: ICRMC/PRES/2025 (with no spaces).
101
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, ROADS AND TRANSPORT
It is the Department’s intention to promote Equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of these
posts with a candidate whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity in line with
the numeric targets contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : For The Department of Community Safety, Roads and Transport to be
submitted to: Acting Chief Director: Fleet Management, Cnr Harvey & Rhodes
Avenue, Oranjesig, Bloemfontein, 9300 or delivered by Hand at Government
Garage Building, Bloemfontein. Applications can also be emailed in this
address: fleetrecruitment@freetrans.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Department of Community Safety, Roads and Transport – Fleet Management
trading entity, Directions to applicants: All applications must be submitted on a
New Z83 form, which can be downloaded on internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview following communication from Human Resources. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed by the
Applicant. The application must indicate the correct Job title, the office where
the position is advertised and the Reference number as stated in the advert.
Failure by the applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form
will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in a possession of Foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Dual citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from
country of origin when shortlisted. All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit
a copy of proof of South African permanent residence when shortlisted.
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will
not be considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all
the requested documents will result in the Application not being considered
during the selection process. All successful candidates will be expected to
enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security clearance
three (3) months after appointments.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/205 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A MECHANICAL (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: FMTE 01/07/2025
Kroonstad Ref No: FMTE 02/07/2025
Bethlehem Ref No: 03/07/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Diesel Mechanic). 10 Years experience
required as an Artisan / Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Experience in a Vehicle Mechanical environment
would be preferred. Ability to communicate effectively in English at all levels.
Technical report writing. Project Management. Computer aided technical
applications. Knowledge of Legal Compliance. Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making skills. Change Management. Planning and organising skills.
102
Knowledge of Production process and skills. Financial Management. Technical
design and analysis knowledge.
DUTIES : Supervision of workshop personnel and their workload. Ensuring internal
training. Administration tasks. Assisting in budget requirements and spending
of budget allocation. Control of stores and spares. Job-card admin via
Computer system (OSIS). Attend relevant meetings. Ensure compliance of the
OHAS Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Leiee at 082 498 7917
POST 27/206 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: FMTE 06/07/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Qwawa Fleet Management
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. National Diploma in Public Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Public Management/ equivalent qualification at (NQF level 6). A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience/supervisory level. A Valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word, Power Point, Excel and
Outlook), Good communication skills (written and verbal), Problem solving
skills, Report writing skills, Analytical skills, Administration skills, Planning and
organizing skills; Confidentiality, Team player, Flexible, Accuracy, attention to
detail and ability to work under pressure and independently.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to Fleet Management; Provide support to
Facilities Management function; Provide support to Fleet Management
Operations; Supervise and develop administrative staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Leiee at 082 498 7917
POST 27/207 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A MECHANICAL (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: FMTE 04/07/2025 (X2 Posts)
Kroonstad Ref No: FMTE 05/07/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIRMENTS : An Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Diesel or Electromechanical Minimum
of 5years experience as an Artisan. A valid Driver’s License. Valid driver’s
license (C1). Knowledge and Skills: Relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations, Knowledge of SLAs, Knowledge of legal compliance Knowledge
in automotive, Knowledge in mechanical and electrical components,
Knowledge of power machines, i.e motor, Knowledge of hydraulics system
equipment’s, Knowledge of electrical and mechanical analogues. computer
skills, Communication, Creativity, Planning and Organizing and Conflict
Management.
DUTIES : Supervise compliance of plant and equipment in the workshop/building
facilities/site. Control and monitor the Maintenance and services rendered.
Perform administrative and related functions. Maintain and advance expertise.
Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Leiee at 082 498 7917
POST 27/208 : CLEANER (X16 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 436 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: FMTE 07/07/2025 (X7 Posts)
Welkom Ref No: FMTE 08/07/2025 (X1 Post)
Kroonstad Ref No: FMTE 09/07/2025 (X1 Post)
Bethlehem Ref No: FMTE 10/07/2025 (X1 Post)
Qwaqwa Ref No: FMTE 11/07/2025 (X6 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Communication skills. Good Interpersonal relations and
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of cleaning products/materials
and equipment. Knowledge of operating cleaning equipment. Good
interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure. Team work. Client focus and
responsiveness. Be able to to perform manual work. Show commitment and
loyalty. Must be punctual, productive and show good behaviour towards
customers. Knowledge Health and Safety measures. Working procedures in
respect of working environment.
DUTIES : Cleaning of Offices, storerooms, corridors, elevators, and boardrooms. Dust
and take out waste and provide water during meetings. Refill aqua coolers/s.
Washing walls and windows. Cleaning equipment and machinery. Cleaning all
103
general kitchen utensils. Scrubbing toilets and polishing office floors. Vacuum
cleaning using vacuum machine. Provide toilet paper in the toilets. Keep and
maintain cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Leiee at 082 498 7917
POST 27/209 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: FMTE12/07/2025 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Knowledge of cleaning procedures and gardening principles.
Ability to operate basic garden equipment and machinery. Knowledge of
maintenance of relevant equipment. Good interpersonal relations Be able to
work in a team. Be able to perform manual work. Show commitment and 55
loyalty. Must be punctual, productive and show good behaviour towards
customers Communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Maintain premises and surroundings.
Maintenance and safekeeping of gardening equipment. Moving furniture and
equipment as required. Removing garbage and empty boxes. Assist in
receiving stock and goods. Reporting losses/damage to equipment. Loading
and offloading of goods.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Leiee at 082 498 7917
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Place applications in the Box at Security Marked Public Service Applications at
Saambou Building, Ground Floor, corner Charlotte Maxeke and Aliwal Street
Bloemfontein. Or use e-mail address specified for each position on the advert.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2025
NOTE : It is the intention to promote representativity in the Department through the
filling of these posts. The candidature of applicants from designated groups
especially in respect of people with disabilities will receive preference.
Applicants must apply using the NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. From 1 January 2021 should
an application be received using the incorrect application form for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. Please ensure to complete ALL fields on the
new Z83 application form. A recent comprehensive, detailed Curriculum Vitae
(CV) containing, inter alia, a complete chronological record of training,
experience, competencies, and previous employment record as well as the
names and telephone numbers of three persons willing to act as referees.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must only submit the Z83 and curriculum vitae
(Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents). All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks on
criminal records, citizenship verification, financial records, qualification
verification and applicants could be required to provide consent for access to
their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Separate applications must be submitted for every vacancy.
N.B.: Please note that: Incomplete and late applications will not be considered.
(applications couriered, and received after the closing date and those that do
not comply with these instructions will not be considered). The onus is on the
applicants to ensure that their applications are couriered, e-mailed or hand
delivered timeously. Failure to comply with the procedure outlined above, will
lead to an application being rejected. Applicants are requested to complete the
new Z83 form properly which must be authenticated by a signature and
initialled on both pages and clearly quoting the relevant Reference Number for
each post applied for. Applicants are informed that applications and CVs will
not be returned; Applicants who terminated their services with voluntary
severance packages may not apply; salary progression on the salary scales is
subject to performance assessment; The FSDoE reserves the right not to fill
advertised positions. It is expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place determined by the Free State Department
of Education. It is the applicants’ responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA
residents/permanent residents will submit proof only when shortlisted.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
104
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
application has been unsuccessful. Please note it might be expected of short-
listed applicants to complete a project. Successful candidates on level 13 and
higher must undergo a Competency test. Introduction and general measures:
NB: as of 1st July 2006, all new appointments in the public service have to be
part of the Government Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS) in order to qualify
for a Government Medical Subsidy. Entry level requirement for SMS posts: In
terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and Development on
Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1, a requirement for appointment
into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG).
The Course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link: https:
www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. Certificate to
be submitted prior to appointment. Regarding e-mailed applications:
Applications must be submitted as a Single document/One Attachment to the
e-mail address specified for each position. (kindly note that e-mailed
applications and attachments should not exceed 15mb). it remains the
candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is successfully
submitted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/210 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: BLOEMFONTEIN AUTISM SCHOOL
REF NO: PS8/2025/01
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Autism School - Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of 4 years appropriate recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Basic
qualification accredited with SANC in terms of Government Notice 425 (i.e.,
Diploma degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse plus a post-basic nursing qualification,
with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of
Government Notice No R 212 in the relevant speciality. The following
qualification will be an added advantage: Clinical nursing practitioner with
Primary Health Care – PGS course. Driver’s license. Preference will be given
to candidates with a degree qualifications.
DUTIES : Manage and run the clinic. Assess medical conditions. Give medical care and
support to learners. Hand out medication. Admit new learners with serious
conditions. Refer and escort learners to different hospitals. Make follow-up
evaluation regarding long term medication. Control ARV medication. Handle
day to day medical problems. Give Information about family planning,
HIV/AIDS, and relevant subjects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Molotsi at 081 046 6712
APPLICATIONS : E-mail application to: erecruitment2@fseducation.gov.za
POST 27/211 : SOCIAL WORKERS
SALARY : R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, Salary according to OSD. Salary notch will
be determined taking years of experience after registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions as Social Worker into
consideration. Minimum notch.
CENTRE : Jimmie Roos Special School Re No: PS8/2025/02 (X1 Post)
Ladybrand Special School Ref No: PS8/2025/03 (X1 Post)
Fakkel Special School Ref No: PS8/2025/04 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. A relevant 4-year degree in Social Work or an
equal Qualification. Experience of multi-disciplinary teams and project
management. Good interpersonal and management skills. Willingness to work
irregular hours and to travel extensively. Knowledge of one of the African
languages of the region. A qualification in Education and registration with SACE
will be an added advantage. Computer literacy. Excellent English written and
verbal skills. Knowledge of the National Curriculum Statement and White Paper
6. In-depth knowledge of policies governing education in general and inclusive
education specifically. Preference will be given to candidates with a degree
qualifications. Valid Driver’s license.
105
DUTIES : Interviewing learners with challenging behaviours, do developmental
assessments. Design and implement Individual Development Plans. Render
Therapeutic Services. Parental guidance. Connecting with sources and
services in the community. Multi professional teamwork. Writing of reports.
Practice a sound administrative system. Organize social meetings and assist
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E. Taljaardt Tel No: (051) 541 1015 (Jimmie Roos Special School)
Mr T.J Boshofs Tel No: (016) 976 0470 (Fakkel Special School)
Mr. J.A Dreyer Tel No: (051) 924 2049 (Ladybrand Special School.
APPLICATIONS : Jimmie Roos Pecial School, E-mail application to:
erecruitment2@fseducation.gov.za
Ladybrand Special School, E-mail application to:
erecruitment4@fseducation.gov.za
Fakkel Special School, E-mail application to:
erecruitment4@fseducation.gov.za
POST 27/212 : STAFF NURSE: JIMMIE ROOS SPECIAL SCHOOL REF NO: PS8/2025/05
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R220 614 – R250 500 per annum
CENTRE : Jimmie Roos Special School, Dewetsdorp
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse, Driver’ license.3 years’
experience in working with youth with severe emotional and behavioural
challenges will be an added advantage. Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC. Demonstrate basic
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices.
DUTIES : Perform a basic clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of
practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Promote quality of basic nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Demonstrate basic communication with patients, supervisors and other
clinicians. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Display a concern for
patients, promoting and advocating basic care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patients ‘needs and requirements nursing care as
directed by the professional scope of practice and standards as determined by
the relevant health facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E. Taljaardt Tel No: (051) 541 1015
APPLICFATIONS : E-mail application to: erecruitment3@fseducation.gov.za
POST 27/213 : TEAM LEADER: CHILD AND YOUTH CARE WORKER
SALARY : R203 748 – R230 700 per annum
CENTRE : Rosenhof Special School, Bloemfontein Ref No: PS8/2025/06 (X1 Post)
Jimmie Roos Special School, Dewetsdorp Ref No: PS8/2025/07 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate as well as a Child Youth & Care Certificate.
DUTIES : Be a team leader for the Child Youth & Care Workers regarding: Provide a
home for the learners where they feel save. Promote healthy relationships
between learners and learners and staff, give guidance, orientate new learners,
give emotional support, receive back absconded learners, search learners,
adherence to daily time tables, supervise learners in their tasks at the hostel,
see to orderly assembly, inspections, supervise hygiene, dress code and extra-
mural activities, discipline learners where necessary, give attention, motivate
learners, keep busy with activities over weekends, attend meetings, attend in
service training, accompany learners to hospital, clinic, sports activities,
camps, church and cultural events.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E. Taljaardt Tel No: (051) 541 1015 (Jimmie Roos Special School)
Ms N. Davids Tel No: (051) 522 6771 (Rosenhof Special School)
APPLICATIONS : Rosenhof Special School, E-mail application to;
erecruitment2@fseducation.gov.za
Jimmie Roos Special School, (E-mail application to:
erecruitment3@fseducation.gov.za
106
POST 27/214 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE WORKER: JIMMIE ROOS SPECIAL SCHOOL
REF NO: PS8/2025/08 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R184 320 – R206 802 per annum
CENTRE : Jimmie Roos Special School, Dewetsdorp
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate as well as a Child & Youth Care Certificate
DUTIES : Provide a home for the learners where they feel save. Promote healthy
relationships between learners and learners and staff, give guidance, orientate
new learners, give emotional support, receive back absconded learners,
search learners, adherence to daily time tables, supervise learners in their
tasks at the hostel, see to orderly assembly, inspections, supervise hygiene,
dress code and extra-mural activities, discipline learners where necessary, give
attention, motivate learners, keep busy with activities over weekends, attend
meetings, attend in service training, accompany learners to hospital, clinic,
sports activities, camps, church and cultural events.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E. Taljaardt Tel No: (051) 541 1015
APPLICATIONS E-mail application to: erecruitment3@fseducation.gov.za
107
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za Only online applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, Females and People
with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants must utilise the most
recent Z83 application form for employment, issued by the Minister for the
Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New Z83 form must be completed,
initialled and signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV)
must also be attached. Failure to attach the completed Z83 and
Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in disqualification. The New
Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA
website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only shortlisted candidates will be
requested to submit certified c5opies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. It is our intention to promote representation
(race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts
and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representation will receive preference. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to
appoint. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 27/215 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: REFS/ 023112 (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Transport
Directorate: Provincial Regulatory Entity
Re-advert, this is the readvertisement of REFS/022919. Applicants who
previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIRMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or NQF level 4 equivalent qualification. No experience
required. Skills and Competencies: Planning and organization, good verbal
and written communication skills, Job Knowledge, Teamwork, Ability to work
under pressure. Computer literacy (Ms word, Excel and Power point) and good
interpersonal relations. Knowledge of GPRE or legal administrative office
functions. Knowledge and understanding of the National Road Traffic Acts,
Public Service Acts. Be prepared to work under pressure.
DUTIES : To provide general administration duties - typing, scanning, filing, emailing etc.
Basic secretariat functions for Gauteng Provincial Regulatory Entity and
supporting units including logistical arrangements for meetings. Manage the
attendance register for the sub-directorate. Tracking incoming and outgoing
mail. Records Management. Provide Administration support. Perform Gauteng
Provincial Regulatory Entity admin functions. Perform Customer Service and
Client after-care functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Mpateni Tel No: (011) 355 7252 / Ms. L. Alexander Tel No: (011) 355
7232
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025 at 23:59 pm
NOTE : All attachments for online application via email must include an application form
Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the
correct job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not
108
be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Some shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic
requirements. If you have not been contacted within three (03) months after
the closing date of this advertisement, based on the unfolding recruitment and
selection processes, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and
employment verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you
consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information
in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s). Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme (Nyukela) is required before the appointment can be made for
Senior Management posts. Enrolment for the course should be made on the
NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme suitably qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced
qualifying persons are invited to apply for the vacant position.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/216 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPORTS AND RECREATION REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/01
Directorate: Sport and Recreation
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate and should have
an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Sport and Recreation
Management / Sport Science / Sport Management / Health Science in Sport or
relevant qualification. A compulsory Pre-Entry Senior Management Certificate
will be required before the assumption of duty. A minimum of 5 years’
experience at a senior management level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
109
Change Management, Programme and Project Management, Conflict
Management, Financial, People Management and empowerment.
Communication, Problem Solving and analysis, client orientation and
Customer Focus, Services Deliver Innovation. Skills: Planning and organizing,
Strategic capability and Leadership, Policy formulation and Policy analysis
skills.
DUTIES : Managing and monitoring sport academies, federations, and club
development. Managing the implementation of recreation programmes and
school sports services. Managing the development and implementation of
competitive sports framework/policy and strategy. Facilitate and coordinate
strategic and operational planning of the Recreation/Mass Participation
Programme (MPP) in the Department. Planning, promoting, and implementing
the National SRSA DORA Grant (Siyadlala Project) across the recreation hubs
as per the approved business plan. Consolidating the newly established
recreational hubs to include geographical spatial positioning for Sport &
Recreation Sector. Supporting the re-engineering (Hub Programme) of the
Recreation Programme in line with the new policy imperatives as per the sport
plan/act to a Recreation Policy. Promoting and coordinating an integrated
school sport programme. Consolidating and implementing the School Sport
Strategy as part of the Provincial Policy Plan/Act in conjunction with GDE.
Promoting participation in school sport by all the learners and schools in the
province in collaboration with GDE. Implementing and promoting the National
SRSA programmes. Strengthening, consolidating, and supporting the newly
elected provincial school sport civil society structure for Gauteng Province
(teacher led and driven) with requisite staffing, administrative, and financial
support. Forging partnerships with Sport Federations, Tertiary Institutions,
School Sport Structures, and other civil society structures on a common matter
of school sport. Promoting, developing, managing, coordinating, and
implementing the delivery of Sport Development Programmes. Gauteng Sport
Academy plan implemented (Provincial Academy programme implemented,
Regional Academy programme implemented, Capacity Building programme).
The management, coordination, implementation, and monitoring of the club
development programme (including the four (4) nodal rural areas project).
Coordinating Gauteng Sport Awards. Coordinating stakeholder relationships.
Promoting Gauteng as the preferred Home of Competitive Sport.
Consolidating, managing, and implementing the newly adopted GPG Bidding
& Hosting Strategy on Sporting, Cultural & MICE programmes in line with the
Competitive Sport Strategy and the new policy approach and Sporting
Plan/Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/217 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/02
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a Degree
qualification in Built Environment / Engineering / Quantity Surveying /
Architecture / Town and Regional Planning / Infrastructure Project
Management (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. A compulsory Pre-Entry
Senior Management Certificate will be required before the assumption of duty.
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/ senior managerial level in
Infrastructure Management and Project Management environment. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Construction Industry Development Board Act of
2000 and Regulations; All best Practices Guides issued by the Construction
Industry Development Board; Council for Built Environment Act of 2000; PFMA
/ DoRA / Treasury Regulations / Practice Notes / Instructions / Circulars;
Provincial / Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies; Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA); Promotion of Administration Act (PAJA);
National Building Standards Act and Regulations; Occupational Health and
Safety Act and Regulations; Expanded Public Works Programme; Broad based
Black Empowerment Act; Preferential Procurement Act and Regulations;
Government Immovable Asset Management Act; Public Service Act and
110
Regulations; Labour Relations Act. Change Management, Programme and
Project Management, Conflict Management, Financial, People Management
and empowerment, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Services Deliver Innovation. Skills: Decision making;
Management of projects; Analytic skills; Negotiation skills; Financial
management; Strategic and operational; Planning and organizing; Problem
solving; Conflict management; Verbal and written communication. Leadership;
Computer literacy; Report writing. Relationship management.
DUTIES : Direct the customization of national policies, norms and standards for
infrastructure. Manage the application of costs norms in terms of infrastructure
projects. Direct and improve infrastructure plans and inputs to the Provincial
Infrastructure Plan; Departmental Strategic Plan; Annual Performance Plan
and Annual Report. Direct integrated and seamless planning between
commissioning of buildings and associated equipment. Review the Medium
Term, Annual and Adjustment Budgets including motivations for rollovers and
direct finalized submissions. Direct land identification, acquisition and
appropriateness including provision of services. Manage the provision of
special data, information and maps. Direct and approve the infrastructure
Programme Management Plan which includes the delivery management
procurement strategy, construction procurement strategy and plan. Review and
sign off the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Direct regular site
visits and monthly progress reports. Manage condition assessments of
provincial and budgets through GDID. Direct implementation of OHS at all
provincial owned infrastructure. Effective management of purchase orders,
payments and authorization in line with delegations. Direct the implementation
of monitoring over Municipalities in terms of the maintenance of infrastructure.
Direct the needs and allocation of professional built environment services to
different sub-directorates. Manage professional architectural, quantity
surveying and engineering services. Manage the spending of the infrastructure
grant (ECD grant) to achieve value for money. Manage the infrastructure grant
budget to support the realization of Departmental services. Use of funds in
Directorate effectively, efficiently and in compliance with Public Finance
Management Act. Undertake planning for future human resources needs.
Manage performance and development. Establish and maintain effective and
efficient communication arrangements. Develop and implement the operational
plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/218 : DIRECTOR: LIBRARY INFORMATION SERVICES AND PROVINCIAL
ARCHIVES REF NO: SACR/02/2025/03
Directorate: Library Information Services and Provincial Archives
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Archival Studies / Libraries &
Information Science or relevant qualification. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
in middle/senior Managerial level in the relevant field. A compulsory Pre-Entry
Senior Management Certificate will be required before the assumption of duty.
A valid driver’s license. Skills: Decision making. Management of projects.
Technical Analytic skills. Financial Management. Strategic and operational.
Planning and organizing. Problem solving. Conflict management. Verbal and
written communication. Leadership. Computer literacy. Report writing.
Knowledge of: The Constitution of 1996. PFMA. Promotion of access to
information act. Promotion of administration justice act. Electronic
communication and transaction act. National archives and records services
act. Change Management, Programme and Project Management, Conflict
Management, Financial, People Management and empowerment.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and implementation of archives and library policies.
Oversee and manage the preservation of public and non-public records and
ensure accessibility to the public. Manage the development, transformation,
promotion and modernization of libraries and information services. Manage
financial support to municipal library services by providing earmarked
transferred allocation. Oversee the implementation of reading and library
111
programs to inculcate the culture of reading. Identify the needs for library and
archives infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/219 : DIRECTOR: CREATIVE ARTS REF NO: SACR/02/2025/04
Directorate: Creative Arts
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Art Management / Creative Arts /
Fine Arts / Arts Craft and design / Arts and Culture Development Management
or relevant qualification. A minimum of 5 years of experience in middle/senior
managerial level in the Arts and Culture environment. A compulsory Pre-Entry
Senior Management Certificate will be required before the assumption of duty.
A valid driver’s license. Skills: Strategic Capabilities and leadership. People
management and empowerment. Problem solving. Interpersonal relationship.
Conflict resolution. Programme and Project management. Policy analysis and
development. Policy/objectives formulation. Financial Management. Research.
Analytical thinking. Change management. Knowledge: Knowledge of
Management. Services Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
DUTIES : Increase the market for creative products through regional promotional and
market expansion campaigns. Support provincial marketing campaigns that
promote such cultural and creative products, industries or attractions as
festivals, heritage routes and live events. To facilitate research. Undertake
national and international trade missions to expand and develop markets for
Gauteng creative products and destinations. Explicitly align creative industries
activities with the Gauteng Growth and Development Strategy and with local
government in the province. Promote the development and marketing of
provincial cultural tourism strategies by fostering coordinated efforts among
provincial and local tourism, arts, humanities, and heritage agencies. Expand
participation in and develop collaborative approaches to cultural tours among
cultural organizations, cultural venues, cultural enterprises and annual
programmes and initiatives. Work with government at all levels to improve
visibility and access to local cultural offerings by improving promotional
advertising signposting and general infrastructure in creative communities.
Provides a coordinating framework for investment and implementation in the
province. To develop organizational and business support mechanisms and
programmes to creative workers and practitioners in these sectors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/220 : DIRECTOR: RISK AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/05
Directorate: Risk and Integrity Management
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus an
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Risk Management/ Audit/
Business Continuity/ Ethics Management as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver’s
license. A compulsory Pre-Entry certificate in senior management service.
Knowledge: Working Knowledge of government planning and reporting
frameworks, Knowledge of setting outcomes targets, developing performance
measures and gathering performance data risk management frameworks and
processes. Financial planning, Budget management, Project management,
Programme and Government Policies such as: PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, Corporate Governance frameworks and King Reports Projects
and programmes of the Department, Change Management, Conflict
Management, People Management and empowerment. Problem Solving and
analysis, client orientation and Customer Focus, Services Deliver Innovation
112
Skills: Good Communication skills and well-developed interpersonal
relationships at all levels. Ability to conduct presentations and deliver objective
reports in an accurate and timely manner. Creativity: Logical, Innovative and
Creative thinker and flexible team player.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of ethics and integrity policies.
Manage the implementation of Anti-corruption strategies. Manage the
implementation of the Code of Conduct. Manage the monitoring of
remuneration work outside the Public Service. Manage the facilitation and
monitoring of financial disclosure. Manage the development and maintenance
of the gift register. Manage the conduction of employee educational and
awareness programmes. Manage the establishment of systems in relation to
risk assessment and appropriate measures, the reporting of corruption,
investigation mechanisms and referral to the relevant law enforcement agency
where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/221 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: SACR/02/2025/06
Directorate: Financial Accounting
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 certificate plus an
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in B. Com Accounting, Auditing /
Financial Management / Supply Chain Management / Management Accounting
as recognised by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in middle / senior managerial level
and relevant experience financial environment. A compulsory Pre-Entry Senior
Management Certificate. A valid driver’s license. Skills: Communication both
verbal and written. Analytical. Report-writing. Research. Computer literacy (MS
Teams). Planning and Organisation. Presentation and training. Problem
Solving. Negotiation. Decision making. Resilience. Self-motivation.
Interpersonal skills. Customer service. Knowledge: Government Financial
Management Systems and PERSAL. Cash Basis of Accounting (MCBA).
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations and related
Treasury Instruction notes and guidelines. Government Supply Chain
Management procedures and the Division of Revenue Act.
DUTIES : Manage revenue efficiently and effectively by developing and implementing
appropriate processes. Manage and ensure maintenance of an accurate and
effective cashier systems. Manage revenue efficiently and effectively by
developing and implementing appropriate processes. Manage and provide
strategic direction for the directorate. Manage resources (Human, Financial,
Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/222 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: SACR/02/2025/07
Directorate: Communications
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 certificate plus an
undergraduate (NQF level 7) in Communications / General Management /
Public Management or equivalent.as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5
years’ experience in middle/ senior managerial level related to communications
and relevant experience in financial environment. A compulsory Pre-Entry
Senior Management Certificate. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: PFMA/
Treasury Regulations. All different contract options for leases.
Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. Public Service
Act of 1994 and Regulations of 2001. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. Labour Relations Act of 1995/Resolutions of Public
Sector Bargaining Councils. Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997.
Service Delivery Innovation. Skills: Communication. Report writing. Analytical.
113
Negotiation. Facilitation. Presentation. Interpretation of legislation. Financial
and administrative skills. Budgeting. Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Manage the development, management, and promotion of the Departmental
communication strategy. Develop key messages per day/week linked to the
communication programme based of DSACR priorities and milestones.
Monitor, evaluate, and take corrective action on the implementation of
communication strategies, policies, and systems. Manage the provision of
multimedia services to the Department. Manage the establishment and
formation of good media relations. Manage the compilation of speeches, media
statements, and articles. Manage the development, costing and presentation
of media-buying plans. Manage the monitoring an evaluation of media-
coverage of the department. Manage the coordination, facilitation, and
management of community outreach programmes. Manage the liaising and
coordinating of the communication framework with relevant stakeholders.
Manage the with the coordinating of services to departments’ communicators
and build communication strategy capacity within the Department. Assist with
the development of DSACR communication policy, model, key performance
indicators and other standards or DSACR communicators. Write articles for
Gauteng news, media statements, news releases, speeches and opinion
pieces. Manage marketing and events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/223 : DIRECTOR: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/08
Directorate: Intergovernmental Relations
(05 years contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration / Development Studies / Social Science as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle /senior managerial level. A
compulsory Pre-Entry Senior Management Certificate. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge and understanding of stakeholder relations legislative and policy
framework, procedures, systems and processes applicable in public service.
Knowledge and understanding of Community Relations and projects
commitments, priorities, systems and processes. Knowledge of Government
Protocols and International Protocols. Knowledge of Provincial Government
Priorities. Knowledge of Government Legislative Framework. Analytical Skills,
Project Management Skills, Report writing skills, Communication Skills and
Problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Develop fiscal frameworks that promote redistribution and equity, foster self-
sufficiency and recognize the autonomy of provincial and governments.
Promote good governance, accountability, and transparency. Ensure the
vertical and horizontal alignment between agreed policies and resource
allocation. Promote the economy, efficient, effective and equitable utilization of
public resources in the delivery of services. Enforce financial management
legislation applicable to provincial and local governance. Support and monitor
the Functionality of IGR system. Coordinate social cohesion and stakeholder
liaison. Manage the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
114
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
APPLICATIONS : must be posted to: The Head of Department, KwaZulu-Natal Department of
Human Settlements, Private Bag X54367, Durban, 4000 or hand delivered to:
The Director: Human Resource Management, Department of Human
Settlements, Ground Floor, Murchison Passage, 353-363 Dr Pixley ka Seme
Street, Durban, 4001. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the
online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : marked for the attention of Ms. N Mungwe
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE` : Directions to applicants: Applicants using the manual application process must
ensure that the new Z83 application form (obtainable from any Public Service
institution) is completed, duly signed and initialled as failure to do so may lead
to disqualification of the application during the selection process. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources. Applicants are
discouraged from sending applications through registered mail because the
Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these applications. No
late applications will be accepted. Applications submitted electronically will be
taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented in any
way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to comply with the above instructions
will result in the disqualification of your application. NB: All shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test the
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise candidates recommended for appointment at the SMS level will be
required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for the course offered by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to their appointment. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into and the full
details can be obtained by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme. The
KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates
from designated groups in terms of Employment Equity Act, 1998. The
Department reserves the right not to make these appointment/s. Note:
Applications not submitted on the fully completed new Z83 application forms
will not be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/224 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: CD - CMS 07/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree at NQF level 7 as recognised by
SAQA in Law, Human Resource Management/ Human Resource
Development/ Organisational Development/ Public Management, coupled with
5 years relevant senior management experience. SMS Pre–Entry is not a
requirement for shortlisting submitted prior to the appointment. A valid driver’s
license. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
designed to test the relevant technical elements of the job. The logistics of this
exercise will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will test
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tool. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of the Constitution of RSA, National Housing Act and National
Housing Codes. Work experience and working knowledge of the Promotion of
115
Administrative Justice Act; Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Collective Bargaining Prescripts, Human
Resource Policies and Practices of the Public Service, Transformation of the
Public Service (White Paper), Public Finance Management Act and Municipal
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, and DPSA’s Toolkit for
Organisational Design. Knowledge of and Skills in Organisational
Development, Facilities Management, Fleet Management and Security
Services Management; Skills and Work experience in Human Resource
Administration and multi–year Human Resource Planning. Computer literacy;
Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem Solving
and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication Skills;
Ability to work under pressure; Flexibility to work after hours; Teamwork-
oriented. Experience with maintaining open relationships with all labour unions.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Ensure the provision of legal support services in the department; Ensure
provision of asset management services in the department. Ensure the
provision of strategic information management and information technology
services in the department. Define and drive the implementation of corporate
strategies in the department. Ensure effective and efficient management of
human and financial resources of the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Related to the post can be directed to: Mr. SM Mbili Tel No: (033) 392 6434
116
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs is an equal
opportunity employer with clear employment equity targets. The Department is committed to providing
equal opportunities and affirmative action employment practices. It is our intention to promote
representation in terms of race, gender, and disability. Women and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements & Traditional
Affairs would like to invite suitably qualified candidates who are creative, energetic, self-driven, and
hardworking and have a passion for improving the standard of living of citizens of Limpopo, to apply for
the positions as it appears below.
APPLICATIONS : Should be submitted online through http://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za Hand
delivered applications should be submitted to 28 Market Street (Next to UNISA)
Registry Office (First Floor) or alternatively post to The Head of Department;
Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional
Affairs, Private Bag X9485, Polokwane 0700.
CLOSING DATE : 22 August 2025
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on a New Z83 form obtainable from all Public
Service Departments or at www.dpsa.gov.za (must be completed in full), and a
comprehensive copy of your Curriculum Vitae only (Certified copies of ID
matric certificate, drivers’ license and qualifications will be requested from
shortlisted candidates only). The specific reference number for the post must
be quoted. SMS candidates are required to produce proof of completion of
National School of Government Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
prior to appointment. The course is obtainable on link:
https://www.thensg.govza/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. ““All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with
DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.” Short-listed
candidates for the above posts will be subjected to a Security clearance and
verification of qualifications. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain
responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbents will be
expected to sign a performance agreement within one month after the
assumption of duty. The successful candidate will also be required to disclose
their financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Failure to
comply with the requirements will result in the applicants being disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. However, should there
be any dissatisfaction; applicants are hereby advised to seek reasons for the
above administration action in terms of Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right to make an
appointment in respect of the advertised posts.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/225 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENT PROGRAMMES AND
PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO: COGHSTA 01/25
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Region A
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Built Environment/ Project
Management/Town & Regional Planning as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5
Years of experience at a senior managerial level and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Proven
experience in both project and programme management and evaluation.
Sound and in-depth knowledge of the Housing Legislative Framework,
prescripts, policies, and practices relevant to the human settlements Sector,
117
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act, PFMA, Housing Act no 107 of 1997, Town
Planning and Township Ordinance 15 of 1986, Development and Facilitation
Act 67 of 1995, National Housing Code of 2009, National Home Builders
Registration Act (NHBRC Act), National Building Regulation and Standard Act
of 1997. Skills And Knowledge: Strategic Capability and Leadership;
Programme and Project Management; Change Management; Financial
Management; People Management and Empowerment; Knowledge
Management; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer
Focus; Communication; Policy Formulation; Research and Computer
utilization, Negotiation skills and Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage Planning and Implementation of all Human Settlements and Housing
Programmes which include amongst others Rural Housing, Enhanced People’s
housing Process, Community Residential Units, Emergency and Disaster
housing, Social Housing, Farmworker housing, Financed Linked Subsidy
Programme, Engineering bulk and reticulation infrastructure and Eradication of
Asbestos programme. Drafting programme and projects implementation
strategies and managing their implementation. Ensure compliance with all built
environment and Housing legislative frameworks which include amongst
others Building Regulations, National Environmental Management Act
(NEMA), Housing Consumers Protection Measures Act and DoRA, Facilitate
responses to queries from SCOPA, AGSA and other stakeholders; Manage
resources (financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
POST 27/226 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME REF NO:
COGHSTA 02/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/Development
Studies/Community Development (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum 5 Years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Local Government Municipal
Structures Act, Local Government Municipal System Act, White Paper on
Transformation of Public Service and other key Public Service and Legislative
frameworks. Understanding and knowledge of broader community
development related policies, frameworks and norms and standards. Strategic
capability and leadership. Skills And Knowledge: Problem Solving, Change
Management, People management and empowerment, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Stakeholder Management, Facilitation, Communication and
Diversity management.
DUTIES : Oversee implementation and evaluation of Community Development
Programmes. Monitor early warning and database on community concerns.
Coordinate research on community development; ensure marketing and
profiling of the work of CDWs in districts through intergovernmental forums;
manage integrated development interventions in partnership with other
relevant stakeholders; policy development and analysis. Co-ordinate and
improve participation of communities in government programmes. Promote
and mobilize communities to access services provided by government. Assist
communities to identify and communicate their needs to government within the
national, provincial and local government sphere. Manage resources
(Financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
POST 27/227 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING, RESEARCH, MONITORING &
EVALUATION REF NO: COGHSTA 03/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Strategic Management/Public Administration
or equivalent qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA. A post-graduate
qualification (NQF Level 8) will be an added advantage. Minimum of five (5)
118
years’ relevant experience at senior/middle management level in Strategic
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Research and/ or Policy Management. A
valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And
Process Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act. Government-wide Monitoring and Evaluation Framework.
Treasury Regulations. Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual Performance
Plans. Public Service Act and Regulations. Service Delivery Improvement
prescripts. Batho Pele Principles. Process Competencies: Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis,
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Skills And
Knowledge: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Problem Solving, Change
Management, People Management and empowerment, Financial
Management Stakeholder Management, Facilitation, Communication
Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis, and Programme and Project Management.
DUTIES : Develop and publish Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans.
Coordinate the development of Operational Plans of the Branches within
CoGHSTA. Coordinate research and policy management. Coordinate the
monitoring and evaluation of the CoGHSTA APPs and Operational Plans.
Coordinate, develop, and monitor the implementation of the CoGHSTA Service
Delivery Improvement Plan. Lead the implementation of Annual Performance
Plans, Operational Plans, and oversee the Audit and Risk Management
processes of the Directorate. Manage and ensure effective and efficient
utilization of financial, human and physical resources of the Directorate in line
with applicable legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
POST 27/228 : DIRECTOR: RISK, ANTI FRAUD & CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
COGHSTA 04/25
Branch: HOD Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Risk Management/Internal Auditing (NQF
Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level and valid driver’s license (with exception of
person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of Risk Management and Corporate Governance, PFMA and other
related prescripts; Extensive Knowledge of Enterprise wide Risk Management
best Practices; Experience in conducting risk assessments within an
organisation. Knowledge and experience in developing and compiling risk
registers. Experience in conducting risk awareness and training. A thorough
understanding of Risk Management and Business Continuity Management;
Experience in risk governance (Risk Policy, strategy, risk appetite). Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
framework governing the public service, e.g. Public Service Act, Labour
Relation Act, PFMA;. Skills And Knowledge: Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge
Management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem Solving and
Analysis; People Management and Empowerment; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Communication; Research; Computer Utilization; Policy
Formulation; Investigation.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of fraud and corruption
prevention measures i.e policies/strategies; Oversee and monitor the
conducting of investigation on fraud and corruption related matters in both the
Department & Municipalities; Oversee awareness workshops on Anti-
Corruption and security within Municipalities; Monitor, coordinate, implement
review and improve the Risk Management Framework; Coordinate and
facilitate the institutionalization risk management; Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship within the Department and relevant
stakeholders; Manage resources (Financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
119
POST 27/229 : DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO: COGHSTA
05/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Developmental Studies/Economics (NQF
Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level and valid driver’s license (with exception of
person with disability).Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g. Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act,
PFMA, Understanding of the public services environment, Project
Management, Government systems and structures, Functional Ability, HR
matters, finance, Planning and Organising, Applicable legislations. Skills And
Knowledge: Problem solving; Financial Management; Proven Managerial
skills; Accomplished leader; Change agent; Advanced strategic; planning skills;
Research orientated person; Confident communicator; Financial management;
People management skills; Networking skills; Innovative thinking; Strategic
and conceptual orientation; Organisational skills; Adaptability to meet the goal
during changes; Policy formulation.
DUTIES : Provide strategic support and monitoring towards the development and
implementation of municipal LED strategies and plans, Coordinate and support
the development of LED capacity in municipalities, Facilitate the enhancement
LED through coordination and the establishment of partnerships in
collaboration with the Limpopo Provincial Department of Economic
Development, Environment and Tourism and other stakeholders; Support LED
flagship programmes and catalytic projects in municipalities, Develop and
strategies for the implementation of the Small Towns Revitalization Programme
and the Integrated Urban Development Framework. Oversee and support the
implementation of the Community Work Programme and Expanded Public
Works Programme; Manage resources (financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/230 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
PROGRAMME & PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO: COGHSTA 06/25
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum (Level OSD), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Waterberg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Built Environment field (NQF 6) as
recognized by SAQA with a minimum of 6 years’ experience as a registered
Professional Construction Project Manager with the SACPCMP; and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of Town planning application of
the legislative framework governing the public service, National Building
Regulations & standard, SANS 10400 Building Regulations, Occupational
Health & safety Act, Human Settlement Planning & Design, National Housing
Code, PFMA etc. Skills And Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation skills,
People management, Research, Time Management, Communication both
formal and informal, Creativity, Self-Management, Analytic skills, Programme
& Project management, Facilitation skills, Dispute/conflict resolution skills,
Computer-aided Architectural, Team building, Problem solving, Managerial
skills, Financial managerial skills.
DUTIES : Project design and analysis effectiveness; Maintain project operational
effectiveness; Financial management; Governance; People management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
POST 27/231 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
COGHSTA 07/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Mopani
120
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Developmental Studies/Economics (NQF
level 6) as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the
environment of which three (3) must be at supervisory level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of disabled applicants). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, National/LED framework MSDP; Municipal
LED strategies, Provincial Spatial Rationale PFMA/MFMA, Constitution; White
Paper on Local Govt, National Development Plan & Limpopo Development
Plan. Skills and Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People
management skills, Time management, Communication, both formal, and
informal; Project mgt skill, Leadership skill, Financial mgt skill, People
management skill, Analytic skills, Investment Analysis Research skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage functionality of Municipal and Provincial LED forum;
Manage the development and review of Municipal LED strategies; Coordinate
the implementation of LED initiatives and intervention; Monitor the
development and roll-out of public employment programme (Community Work
Programme & EPWPP within the Province). Support implementation of Small-
Town revitalization programme and Integrated Urban Development
Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
POST 27/232 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL FINANCE REF NO: COGHSTA 08/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Capricorn
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in Accounting/ Auditing/ Financial
Management as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the
environment of which three (3) must be at supervisory level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of disabled applicants). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills And Knowledge:
Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time
management; Communication, both formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Monitor and support Municipal Public Accounts Committees and governance
structures (Audit and Risk Committees); Monitor and support municipalities on
the development and implementation audit action plans.; Support and monitor
the implementation of the MPRA in the Municipalities in respect of General
Valuation Rolls, supplementary valuation rolls and functionality of Limpopo
Provincial Valuation Appeal Board in line with Municipal Property Rates Act no.
6 of 2004; Submission of the Annual financial statements (section 131 (2)(a) of
MFMA. Monitor and provide hands on support on the preparation, timely
submission of Annual Financial Statements to Auditor-General SA, Improved
financial viability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 27/233 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEC ADMIN SUPPORT REF NO: COGHSTA 09/25
Branch: MEC Support
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Public Management /
Political Studies (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ relevant
experience of which three (3) Must be at supervisory level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Knowledge of Ministerial operations; Public Service
Regulation; Public Service Act; PFMA; Knowledge of the Political and
Parliamentary Processes in South Africa; Broad knowledge and understanding
of Functional arears covered by the Executing Authority’s Portfolio: Skills &
Knowledge: Negotiation skills; Facilitation skills; Report Writing; Time
management; Ability to Communicate with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds; Creative/innovative; Analytical Thinking skills;
Language Skills; Good grooming and Presentation; Good Telephone Etiquette;
Good Organizational skills; Good People skills; High level of reliability; Basic
written communication skills; Ability to act with tact and discretion.
121
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
executive authority; Liaise with internal and external role players with regard to
matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority; Render a
cabinet/executive council support service to the executive authority; Supervise
employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 27/234 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: COGHSTA 10/25
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; Five (5)
years’ experience within the environment of which three (3) Must be at
supervisory level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
public service e.g. Public Service Regulation; Public Service Act; Housing Act,
Housing Code; Breaking New Ground Policies. Skills & Knowledge:
Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People management skills, Time
management, Communication, both formal and informal, Computer skill,
Numeracy skill, Creative/Innovative, Analytical thinking skills.
DUTIES : Manage capacity building for Provincial and Municipality officials on Human
Settlement matters; Manage municipal accreditation in the province; Manage
Human Settlements consumer education; Manage development of emerging
contractors and cooperatives; Manage the provision secretarial services of
quarterly provincial human settlements forum meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 27/235 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
PROJECTS REF NO: COGHSTA 11/25
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R879 342 per annum (Level OSD), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Capricorn
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years
and six months’ certified experience BTech (Built Environment field) with a
minimum of 4 years’ certified managerial experience. Honours degree in any
Built Environment field with a minimum of 3 years’ experience Valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager on appointment. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of Town planning, application
of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., National Building
Regulations & standard, SANS 10400 Building Regulations, Occupational
Health & Safety Act, Human Settlement Planning & Design, National Housing
Code, PFMA etc. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills; Presentation skills;
People management skills; Research; Time management; Communication
skills (both formal and informal); Creativity skills; Self-management; Analytical
skills; Programme and project management skills; Facilitation skills;
Dispute/conflict resolution skills; Computer-aided skills; Architectural; Team
building; Problem solving and analysis; Managerial skills and financial
management skills.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects; Project accounting and
financial management; Office administration; Research and Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 27/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL FINANCE REF NO: COGHSTA 12/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Capricorn
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/Auditing/Financial management
(NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience
and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And
Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the local government,
122
MFMA, MPRA, Municipal Systems Act, Municipal Structures Ac, MBRR etc.
Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People
management skills, Time management, Communication, both formal, and
informal.
DUTIES : Monitor and support functionality of MPAC and governance structures (Audit
and risk committees); Monitor and support municipalities on development and
implementation of audit action plans; Support and monitor the implementation
of MPRA; Monitor and provide hands on support on the preparation, timely
submission of AFS to AGSA; Improved financial viability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 27/237 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: COGHSTA 13/25
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A minimum
of 3 years relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of
person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., Public Service Regulation, Public Service
Act, Housing Act, Housing Code, Breaking New Ground Policies. Skills &
Knowledge: Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People management skills;
Time management; Communication, both formal and informal; Computer skills;
Numeracy skills; Creative/Innovative; Analytical thinking skills.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and facilitate capacity development for provincial and Municipal
Officials on human settlements matters; Co-ordinate and Facilitate
accreditation of Municipalities; Co-ordinate and facilitate Human settlements
Consumer Education; Co-ordinate and facilitate service provider capacity
development. Co-ordinate and facilitate secretariat services for Provincial
Human Settlements Forum meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 27/238 : DISASTER PRACTITIONER: RESPONSE AND RECOVERY REF NO:
COGHSTA 16/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Disaster Management (NQF Level 6) as
recognized by SAQA or Equivalent. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in
Disaster Management and a valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of Batho Pele Principles; Public Service Act; Disaster Management
Act; PFMA; MFMA; Disaster Management Framework and other related acts.
Computer literacy; Dynamics, culture and language of the target community.
Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People
management skills; Time management; Communication; Computer skills;
Numeracy skills; Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of a uniform approach to the dissemination of
early warning messages; Coordinate all rehabilitation and reconstruction
strategies following a disaster in a developmental manner; Coordinate disaster
response and recovery activities in the province; Coordinate the
implementation of emergency relief, reconstruction and rehabilitation in an
integrated and developmental manner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raesibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068
POST 27/239 : ADMIN OFFICER: DEMAND REF NO: COGHSTA 17/25
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management or related field
(NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years relevant experience
and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And
Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
123
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation
skills; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time management;
Communication, both formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Compile pre-order checklist in compliance with preferential procurement policy;
liaise with end-users for proper specifications/terms of reference; invitation of
end user for departmental procurement planning meetings; confirmation
/updating of service providers details (departmental databases/panels);
compilation of inspection questionnaires forms; benchmarking of procurement
less than R500 000.00.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raesibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068
POST 27/240 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES REF NO: COGHSTA 18/25 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/Financial Management (NQF 6)
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in the salary and
expenditure management / various disciplines related to financial management
and a valid drivers’ license (with exception of person with disability). Core And
Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g.,
PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury regulation, Batho Pele Principles, DORA, Public
Service Act, Computer Literacy and Delegation of Authority, PERSAL, BAS,
Finest, Skills & Knowledge: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word,
Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy, Negotiation skills,
Presentation skills, People management skills, Time management,
Communication, Computer skill, Numeracy skill.
DUTIES : Implementation of salary deductions and allowances; Facilitation of Payroll;
Implementation of salary freeze and recall; Implementation of Tax maintenance
and Tax reconciliation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raisibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068
POST 27/241 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: HOUSING FINANCE & CONTRACTUAL PAYMENT
REF NO: COGHSTA 19/25 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/Financial Management (NQF 6)
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in expenditure
management / various disciplines related to financial management and a valid
drivers’ license (with exception of person with disability) Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., BAS,
PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury regulation, Batho-Pele principles, DORA, Public
service act, Computer literacy and delegation of authority, Skills & Knowledge:
Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual
meeting platforms literacy, Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People
management skills, Time management, Communication, Computer skill,
Numeracy skill; Conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Receive, register and verify payment claims from claims and contract
management; Check and verify availability of accompanying documents;
Verify beneficiaries’ lists with HSS approved status report; Reporting; Safe
keeping of claims for audit purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 27/242 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: COGHSTA 20/25
Branch: HOD Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Management Assistant/Secretarial/Office
Management/Public Management (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A
minimum of 1-year experience. Core And Process Competencies: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
124
framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour
Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation
skills, People management skills, Time management, Communication both
formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support; Manage the office; Manage the filing system;
Maintain the HOD’s diary; Management of telephone enquiries; Manage and
monitor the budget commitment register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 27/243 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (CONTRACT LINKED TO CHAIRPERSON’S
TERM OFFICE) REF NO: COGHSTA 21/25
Branch: Traditional Affairs
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Management Assistant/Secretarial/Office
Management/Public Management (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A
minimum of 1-year experience. Core And Process Competencies: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour
Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation
skills, People management skills, Time management, Communication, both
formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support; Manage the office; Manage the filing system;
Maintain the Chairperson’s diary; Management of telephone enquiries;
Manage and monitor the budget commitment register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 27/244 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: RECRUITMENT & SELECTION REF NO:
COGHSTA 22/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/Human Resource
Management (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA. Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Regulation PFMA, Human Resource Management; PERSAL Systems. Skills &
Knowledge: Presentation skills; People management skills; Time management
skills; Communication skills (both formal and informal) and Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Administering advertised vacant posts on the structure; Coordinate selection
processes, Facilitate PERSAL appointments; Administering Placements of
officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 27/245 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER: LITIGATION & LEGAL ADVISORY REF NO:
COGHSTA 14/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R252 855 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R292 596 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R324 579.per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R388 392 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 5: R464 634.per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A
minimum of 0-8 years relevant experience. Valid South African driver’s license
(with exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the
legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Counselling skills;
Interpersonal relations; People management skills; Time management;
Planning and execution; Communication; Computer skills; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient litigation services to the department and
municipalities; Provide Legal opinions and advice to the Department,
Municipalities and Statutory Bodies; Liaison with the Office of the State
Attorney; Office administration support.
125
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 27/246 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER: CONTRACT DRAFTING & COMPLIANCE REF
NO: COGHSTA 15/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R252 855 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R292 596 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R324 579 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R388 392 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 5: R464 634 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA; A
minimum of 0-8 years relevant experience. Valid South African driver’s license
(with exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the
legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Counselling skills;
Interpersonal relations; People management skills; Time management;
Planning and execution; Communication; Computer skills; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient contract management services to the
department, municipalities and other statutory bodies; Drafting of legally
binding and watertight contracts/SLA’s and MoUs to ensure effective service
delivery; Ensure compliance by the service providers and contractors in the
implementation of projects; Liaison with the Office of the Premier: Shared Legal
Services on litigation emanating from the department; Office administration
support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 27/247 : DRIVERS: HOUSE OF TRADITIONAL LEADERS REF NO: COGHSTA 23/25
(X2 POSTS)
Branch: Traditional Affairs
(Contract Linked to Chairperson’s Term Office)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET / AET qualification as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s
license with Professional Driving Permit. Candidates to undergo Competency
Test Driving. Core and Process Competencies: Skills & Knowledge: Knowledge
& skills in: Report Writing, Time management, Good Communication Skills,
Creative/innovative, Analytical Thinking, Good Organizational skills, Good
People skills, High level of Reliability, Basic written communication skills, Ability
to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver documents; Transport employees in the office of the
Department and guests and special advisors of the Executing Authority;
Render a general support function in the office of the Executing Authority;
Maintain knowledge on the policies and procedures that applies in the work
environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
POST 27/248 : HANDYMAN: FACILITIES REF NO: COGHSTA 24/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET / AET qualification as recognized by SAQA. Core And Process
Competencies: Basic knowledge of building maintenance, plumbing, carpentry,
electrical maintenance and equipment repairs. Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing
the Public Service such as: Occupational Health and Safety Act. Skills &
Knowledge: Interpersonal Skills; Technical skills; Time management skills;
Good Written and communication skills; Group dynamics; Diversity & Change
management.
DUTIES : Routine maintenance of office buildings and other infrastructure services i.e.
electricity, sewer systems, buildings and equipment’s as well as assisting with
inspection of maintenance of contractor’s work; Daily recording of maintenance
works performed and needs; Assisting with the planning, scheduling and
126
execution of maintenance tasks; Basic housekeeping and other ad-hoc tasks
identified by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Kobe Kwena Tel No: (015) 294 2094
127
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/249 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): PHC REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/274
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in
terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in Health Sciences, preferably in Public
Health. A minimum of ten (10 years appropriate / recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in
management level at Public Health Service. Competencies: Knowledge of the
District Health System, District Health Planning, District Health Expenditure
Reviews. A demonstrable understanding of the PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment,
Client Orientation and Customer Care. Skills: Leadership, Excellent
Communication skills (verbal and written), Problem Solving, Computer Literacy
and Presentation Skills. Ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage and evaluate the implementation of policy frameworks for service
delivery by Primary Health Care facilities. Monitor and evaluate the
implementation of services by CHC’s and clinics, including mobile clinics.
128
Coordinate and evaluate implantation of the five streams for health system
strengthening. Facilitate transformation of nursing management. Coordinate
and manage NPO’s that provide PHC services. Monitor optimal functioning of
clinic committees. Monitor and evaluate the norms and standards for nursing
practice in Primary Health Care. Promote professionalism in Primary Health
Care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/250 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (PN-A8): COMPREHENSIVE HAS
CLINICAL MANAGEMENT AND TREATMENT (CCMT) REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/275
SALARY : R1 028 091 - R1 172 427 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A
minimum of nine (9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in general nursing. At least four (4) years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in management of HIV,
AIDS, STIs and TB, preferably at supervisory or operational management level.
Valid drivers’ licence. Knowledge and experience in the development and HIV,
STIs, and TB policies and guidelines. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and other relevant financial
prescripts. An accredited certificate in HIV Management Key Competencies:
Knowledge of Data Management systems such as, Tier.net, WebDHIS. Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, particularly HIV clinical
guidelines and policies. Knowledge and experience in clinical mentorship and
support. Application of the legislative framework governing the Public Service
e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Skills development Act and various bargaining council regulations. Ability to
develop and monitor quality standards. Skills requirements: Presentation
skills, People Management skills, Financial Management skills, Time
Management, Report writing skills, Co-ordination skills, Strategic planning
skills and Research skills and leadership skills. Sound knowledge, skills and
experience in Monitoring and Evaluation. Excellent verbal, written and
presentation, and communication skills. Data analytics. Ability to work
independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the Comprehensive HIV Treatment Programme at the
provincial office. Manage the resources allocated to the Sub-directorate.
Develop, monitor and review HIV and TB clinical guidelines and policies.
Ensure the integration of HIV-TB programmes with other programmes. Liaise
with stakeholders on all HIV clinical and treatment programmes. Monitor and
develop quality HIV treatment standards. Provide technical support to Districts
and sub-districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/251 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (PN-A8): HIV, AIDS AND STI PREVENTION
PROGRAMMES REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/276
SALARY : R1 028 091 - R1 172 427 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025).
A minimum of nine (9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the South African Nursing
129
Council (SANC) in general nursing. At least four (4) years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in management of HIV,
AIDS, STIs and TB, preferably at supervisory or operational management level.
Valid drivers’ licence. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Division
of Revenue Act and other relevant financial prescripts. An accredited certificate
in HIV Management will be an added advantage. Key Competencies:
Knowledge of Data Management systems such as, Tier.net, WebDHIS. Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, particularly HIV prevention
guidelines and policies. Knowledge and experience in clinical mentorship and
support. Application of the legislative framework governing the Public Service
e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Skills development Act and various bargaining council regulations. Ability to
develop and monitor quality standards. Skills requirements: Presentation skills,
People Management skills, Financial Management skills, Time Management,
Report writing skills, Co-ordination skills, Strategic planning skills and
Research skills and leadership skills. Sound knowledge, skills and experience
in Monitoring and Evaluation. Excellent verbal, written and presentation, and
communication skills. Data analytics. Ability to work independently and under
pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the HIV, AIDS and STIs Prevention programmes at
provincial office. Manage the resources allocated to the Sub-directorate.
Develop, monitor and review HIV, AIDS, and STIs prevention guidelines and
policies. Ensuring the integration of HIV, STIs and TB prevention programmes
with other prevention programmes. Liaise with stakeholders on all HIV, STI, TB
and other prevention programmes. Monitor and develop quality HIV prevention
standards. Provide technical support to Districts and sub-districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/252 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (PN-A8): PARTNERSHIP AND
STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/277
SALARY : R1 028 091 - R1 172 427 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A
minimum of nine (9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in general nursing. At least four (4) years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in management of HIV,
AIDS, STIs and TB, preferably at supervisory or operational management level.
Valid drivers’ licence. Knowledge and experience in management of
stakeholders and building partnerships. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and other relevant financial
prescripts. Key Competencies: Contract management skills. Financial and
human resource management skills. Good communication and writing skills.
Application of the legislative framework governing the Public Service e.g.,
Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Skills development Act and various bargaining council regulations. Ability to
develop and monitor and assess contracts, namely SLAs and MOUs. Skills
requirements: Presentation skills, People Management skills, Financial
Management skills, Time Management, Report writing skills, Co-ordination
skills, Strategic planning skills and Research skills and leadership skills. Sound
knowledge, skills and experience in stakeholder management. Excellent
verbal, written and presentation, and communication skills. Data analytics.
Ability to work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate stakeholders and partnerships. Manage the resources
allocated to the Sub-directorate. Develop, monitor and review Memorandum of
Understanding (MOUs) and Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Develop
platforms for stakeholder participation and involvement. Develop strategic
partnerships and stakeholder management frameworks. Facilitate the signing
130
of contractual agreements between DOH and other health care providers.
Monitor compliance with departmental policies and guidelines by stakeholders
and partners. Liaise with internal health programmes and MPAC.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/253 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HIV, STI AND TB DATA ANALYST REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/278
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level
7) in Information Management, Public Health, Health Informatics, or a related
field as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience
in monitoring and evaluation of HIV, AIDS, STIs and TB programmes at
supervisory level (ASD) or equivalent position. Valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge of health information systems such as District Health Information
System (DHIS), Tier.Net, eHealth systems, PFMA, financial Management,
human resource management, client orientation and customer care, and
national data reporting requirements. Experience in data analytics, particularly
in-depth analysis of HAST indicators in relation to other health programmes.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills for data analysis, policy
development, and strategic planning. Proficiency in digital transformation and
ICT solutions related to HAST in information in particular and health data in
general. Ability to lead and coordinate data analytics teams across multiple
levels the health system. Skills needed amongst others, are analytical,
excellent communication, computer statistical software, Leadership,
presentation.
DUTIES : Overseeing HAST data analytics processes at all levels. Manage and
coordinate the functionality of Nerve Centre’s at all levels. Generate monthly,
quarterly and annual HAST indicator performance reports. Monitoring and
evaluating provincial and district health indicators to support evidence-based
decision-making. Implementing and strengthening data analytics frameworks
to enhance performance monitoring. Support digital health transformation
initiatives and ensure integrated data analytics using or including other
electronic health record systems. Coordinating with stakeholders such as the
National Department of Health, ICT service providers, and district offices to
improve health data analysis. Provide mentorship and technical support to
M&E Officers, managers, and relevant personnel on data analysis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/254 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/280 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY R872 709 - R930 183 per annum
CENTRE Nkangala District:
Witbank Hospital (X1 Post)
KwaMhlanga Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Master’s Degree in Clinical Psychology.
Current registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HCPSA) as a Clinical Psychologist (2025). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Sound clinical knowledge regarding Clinical Psychology
diagnostic assessment and treatment procedures. Knowledge and the ability
to administer and interpret psychological tests. Ability to function in a multi-
disciplinary team. Excellent Communication and interpersonal relationship
skills. Quality Assurance and Improvement. Problem solving skills.
Competency in psychological assessment and report writing within the context
of forensic Mental HealthCare services. Ability to develop and implement
psychological rehabilitation programmes. Teaching and training ability.
Administration skills. Knowledge of all applicable legislation pertaining to
131
Mental Health Care and forensic Mental Health. Psychotherapeutic and clinical
knowledge in patient assessment, diagnosis and treatment across the lifespan.
Ethical and legislative framework of practice. Departmental guidelines and
policies. Evidence based psychological practice. Understanding of broader
community, cultural, contextual and socio-economic factors which impact
mental health. Ability to work within a multidisciplinary team. Good organization
and time management skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal
relations. Sensitivity to gender, racial, ethnic, sexuality and disability issues.
Computer Literacy in Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, etc. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure the rendering of clinical psychologist services to hospital facilities.
Ensure the development of training material and provide training in mental
health to the wider MDT. Part of a multidisciplinary team. Outreach to regional
and district hospitals and PHC Participation in the development of
psychological services in the region. Participation in academic activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/255 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/286 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Buffelspruit CHC (X1 Post)
Elandsfontein Clinic (X1 Post)
Xanthia Clinic (X1 Post)
Goromane Clinic (X1 Post)
Nkangala District:
Botleng Ext 3 Clinic (X1 Post)
Tweefontein “D” Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years of appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Primary Health Care after obtaining the 1 year post
basic PHC Nursing Science qualification. Experience and knowledge of the
District Health System. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how these impact
on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and finance and
practices. Knowledge of relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health
Occupational and Safety Act, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles,
Operational Management Skills. Problem Solving, planning and Organizing
Skills. Expected to work under pressure and on night duty. Leadership.
Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, inter-personal and
communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and how this
impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added advantage (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
132
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/256 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) (PN-A7) REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/290 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 - R813 732 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Impungwe Hospital (X1 Post)
Ehlanzeni District:
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Bongani TB Specialized Hospital (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande District:
Elsie Ballot Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of eight (8) years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least three (3) years
referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience at
management level. A Diploma / Degree in Nursing Administration and
Management will be an added advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer
literacy, strong Leadership, Good communication and Sound Interpersonal
skills. Ability to work under pressure, manage own time, function as an effective
leader of the nursing team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to
work shifts and standby in accordance with the requirements of the unit and
nursing services. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Delegate, Supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate quality nursing care. Initiate and participate in
health promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive work relationships with nursing and other stakeholders.
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards, policies, PMDS, procedures, Contingency
and Strategic Plans. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of human, financial
and physical resources. Quality management including infection control,
information management and clinical audits. Participating in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Manage human resources. Monitor and ensure proper utilization
of financial and physical resources. Implement all relevant prescripts. Manage
and monitor proper utilization of human financial and material resources.
Manage the budget according to PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/257 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-A7): COMPREHENSIVE HAS
CLINICAL MANAGEMENT AND TREATMENT (CCMT) REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/292 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 - R813 732 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Mbombela Sub-district (X1 Post)
Nkomazi Sub-district (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of eight (8) years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least three (3) years
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in HIV, AIDS,
133
STIs and TB at management level. A Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management will be an added advantage. Valid drivers
licence. An accredited certificate in HIV Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Division of
Revenue Act and other relevant financial. Key Competencies: Knowledge of
Data Management systems such as, Tier.net, DHIS. Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts. Application of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion
of Access to Information Act, Skills development Act and various bargaining
council regulations. Skills requirements: Presentation skills, People
Management skills, Financial Management skills, Time Management, Report
writing skills, Co-ordination skills, Strategic planning skills and Research skills.
Sound knowledge, skills and experience in Monitoring and Evaluation.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work independently
and under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the CCMT Programme at district level. Manage the
resources allocated to the programme. Monitor and review HIV clinical
guidelines and policies. Liaise with stakeholders on all HIV clinical and
treatment programmes. Monitor compliance to quality HIV treatment
standards. Provide technical support and mentorship to facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/258 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-A7): VERTICAL TRANSMISSION
PROGRAMME (VTP) REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/293
SALARY : R693 096 - R813 732 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of eight (8) years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least three (3) years
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in HIV, AIDS,
STIs and TB at management level. A Diploma/Degree in Nursing Administration
and Management will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s licence. An
accredited certificate in HIV Management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and
other relevant financial prescripts. Key Competencies: Knowledge of Data
Management systems such as, Tier.net, WebDHIS. Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts. Application of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion
of Access to Information Act, Skills development Act and various bargaining
council regulations.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the Vertical Transmission Programme at district level.
Manage the resources allocated to the programme. Monitor and review HIV
clinical guidelines and policies. Liaise with stakeholders on all HIV clinical and
treatment programmes. Monitor compliance to quality VTP standards. Provide
technical support and mentorship to the sub-districts. Ensure integration and
collaboration with other programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/259 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL UNIT REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/295 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
134
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
Nkangala District:
Impungwe Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing tea
m. Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby in
accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining optimal Nursing Services as an Operational
Manager in OPD Unit. Develop / establish and maintain constructive working
relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter- Professional, inter–
sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate in the analysis,
formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, Standards,
and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of Human, Financial and
Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth / Ethical standards and self-
development. Deliver a supportive service to the Nursing Service and the
institution by taking overall supervision after hours and on weekends. Ensure
implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal Hospital Framework and
develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage Performance and Development
of staff as well as participating in the Managers scheduled meetings. Exercise
control of discipline, grievance and other labour related issues in terms of laid
down policies or procedures. Manage data in the unit and ensure submission
to the facility information office. Identity develops and control Risk Management
Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic environment as laid by
Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and all the applicable
prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection Prevention and
Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/260 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/296
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Xanthia Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
135
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho-Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/261 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/297
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial / Accounting Management as recognised by SAQA. At least a
minimum of three (3) years’ extensive at supervisory/managerial (Level 7/8)
within Finance Environment. Knowledge of legislative prescripts governing the
public sector Financial Administration, but emphasis should be on the Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act of 2000, supply chain management. A
guide to Accounting Officer/Authority and practice notes. Full knowledge of
management and performance on the transversal system used in Government.
Skills such as MS Word and Excel Spreadsheet application of any software,
financial analytical skills, will be a pre-requisite. Extensive knowledge of all
relevant legislation. Practical knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS)
and LOGIS including SCOA (Standard Chart of Accountants). Analytical skills.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Responsible for the effective financial management and accounting which
includes: the implementation of financial systems and timely submission of
financial reports in strict compliance with the PFMA and other prescripts,
preparation and maintenance of bank reconciliation statements, preparation,
compilation and interpretation of Interim and Annual Financial Statements.
Develop and manage the budget processes in the institution in conjunction with
hospital management and other stakeholders in line with departmental
financial strategy. Improve supply chain management compliance in line with
related prescripts. Develop, implement and monitor measures designed to
optimize revenue collection. Manage institutional fleet, and
maintenance/repairs of infrastructure and buildings. Ensure that all payments
for compensation of employees, goods and services, transfers, subsidies and
reporting are efficiently and effectively performed. Reconcile all ledger
accounts with control accounts in the ledger. Liaise with relevant role players
regarding transversal financial matters. Ensure that all financial records and
documents are kept safe and up to date. Must be able to identify, develop and
implement internal controls (including policies) to prevent unauthorized,
irregular and fruitful expenditure. Ensure effective management of debtors.
Manage Finance staff, undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions, and ensure sound financial management is provided
all the time within the hospital. Identification of measure cost drivers and
develop strategies to minimize overspending of budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/262 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HIV, AIDS, STIS AND TB (HAST) MONITORING
AND EVALUATION REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/298
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Health,
Social Sciences or related qualification as recognised by SAQA. At least a
136
minimum of three (3) years’ extensive experience in monitoring and evaluation
at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8) within Health Environment. Valid drivers
licence. Key Competencies: Knowledge of Data Management systems such
as, Tier.net, WebDHIS. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts.
Application of the legislative framework governing the Public Service e.g.,
Public Service Act, PFMA, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Skills development Act and various bargaining council regulations. Skills
requirements: Presentation skills, People Management skills, Financial
Management skills, Time Management, Report writing skills, Co-ordination
skills, Strategic planning skills and Research skills. Sound knowledge, skills
and experience in Monitoring and Evaluation. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Contribute to strategic planning of the HAST Chief Directorate. Co-ordinate the
compilation and submission of the HAST Business Plan. Co-ordinate data
verification and validation processes. Conduct data analytics. Facilitate and co-
ordinate quarterly and annual strategic performance reviews at District and
Provincial level. Co-ordinate the compilation and ensure the submission of
performance reports in line with the APP, DORA and Operational Plan
requirements. Co-ordination of the District Implementation Plans (DIPs).
(HAST Programmes). Co-ordinate and support the functionality of Nerve
Centre’s at all levels. Conduct evaluations for HAST programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/263 : HEALTH INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/299
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Matikwana Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in DHIS or
Diploma / Degree in Statistic / Information Management as recognized by
SAQA plus three (3) relevant experience. Advanced computer literacy.
Presentation and data analysis skills. Extensive knowledge of Health
Information systems. Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of public
health indicators and data elements. Advanced knowledge in the management
of registers and all relevant source documents. Knowledge of data quality
assessment tools and methods. Skills in data consolidation, verification and
validation process. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct database management of DHIS in the hospital and other relevant
systems. Conduct facility data and performance review meetings. Conduct
data verification, validation and consolidation of hospital data from all sources.
Timeously capture data on the Web-DHIS and upload into the system. Support
DHIS version updates and workshops relating to new versions. Support
implementation of National, Provincial and District Health Information systems.
Conduct data quality audit for the facility and quality improvement plans.
Monitor implementation of health information policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/264 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/300
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience or Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Labour Relations /
Public Administration / Human Resources Management or relevant field as
recognized by SAQA. Computer Literacy certificate with the ability to work on
Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Excel good analytical skills, Good
written and verbal communication skills. Good Interpersonal relations and the
ability to work independently and under pressure.
137
DUTIES : Support the implementation of employee relations policies, plans, systems,
guidelines, procedures and processes to create a conducive labour relations
environment, in line with the relevant public service prescripts. Assist in
conducting ER investigations, resolving disputes and grievances, ensuring
proper preparation, presenting cases and representing the Department at
conciliation and arbitration, where required. Represent the Department at
Disciplinary cases, where required, ensuring adequate preparation,
presentation of cases and obtaining a mandate before disciplinary hearings.
Provide ER advice and facilitate capacity-building initiatives to the business
unit on request for non-complex matters. Assist in coordinating the
department’s collective bargaining processes and agreements, including
preparation of the DBC, identification of items, review of minutes and ensuring
the implementation of decisions taken at the DBC. Follow up on employee
relations issues with management and employees. Administered and
maintained a reliable labour relations reporting system for allocated cases,
ensuring timely submission of required statistics, drafting quarterly, annual, and
ad hoc reports/ statistics, and capturing cases on PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/265 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/301
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mmametlhake Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/266 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: WITBANK INTERNAL MEDICINE REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/302
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank TB Specialized Hospital (Nkangala District)
138
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/267 : SOCIAL MOBILISATION OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/305 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office (X1 Post)
Bushbuckridge and Nkomazi Sub-district (X1 Post)
(Cluster) and Chief Albert Luthuli Sub-district (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
HIV Programmes or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration
/ Public Management as recognised by SAQA. valid drivers’ licence. Training
certificates in HIV programmes. Certificates or knowledge of computer literacy.
Skills and key competencies: Good computer skills, excel, word, power-point
etc. Ability to organize events and campaigns. Proficiency in English and other
languages. Good communication and writing skills, particularly in English.
Knowledge of Data Management systems such as Tier.net, WebDHIS. Sound
and in-depth knowledge of HIV programmes. Knowledge of at least two African
languages.
DUTIES : Promote and market HIV and TB services and programmes. Coordinate
campaigns and events. Liaise with different media platforms to promote HAST
programmes. Support condom distribution. Develop and monitor
implementation of social mobilization activities. Compile and submit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/268 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/306
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Lillydale Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
139
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of
Nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 27/269 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/310 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R250 947 – R282 921 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Middelburg Hospital (X1 Post)
KwaMhlanga Hospital (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande District:
Amersfoort Clinic (X1 Post)
Embalenhle CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus registered as Post- Basic Pharmacist
Assistant with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025). Valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Skills in terms of consultations.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies. Good communication, problem solving and conflict management
skills. Professionalism, accuracy, flexibility, independence and ethical
behaviour.
DUTIES : Ensure proper receipt recording and storage of all medicines and consumables
according to standard operating procedures handled in the area of operations.
Ensure responsibility and accountability for safe patient medicine use.
Compounding and preparation of any medicines as delegated. Promote correct
evaluation prescriptions and legal processing of medicine prescription,
stocktaking and distribution of supplies to the client. Promotion of Public
Health. Ensure accurate recording of statistics and administrative requirements
as required by policy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
140
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT SAFETY AND LIAISON
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : Applications stating the relevant reference number must be sent to: Head of
Department: Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison, Southern Life
Building, Cnr Du Toitspan and Chapel Street, Kimberley, 8300. "Note" in line
with DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, applicants should submit applications on the
new Z83 form only. Applications may be emailed to
dtsl_recruitment.ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms.J.J.Jafta
CLOSING DATE : 22 August 2025
NOTE : Note" in line with DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, (Only Z83 and CV are submitted,
on other documents) the form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies or obtained at any government department. A recently updated,
comprehensive CV, with at least two (2) contactable references should
accompany the fully completed and signed new (Z83) form. The provision of
certified copies of qualifications will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted
applicants will be subjected to qualification verification, reference checking,
security screening and vetting. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Correspondence will be limited
to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail
themselves at the Department’s convenience. The department reserves the
right not to make appointments to the advertised post. Incomplete applications,
applications received after the closing date or applications without SAQA
verification reports for foreign qualifications will not be considered. It is
important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Each application for employment form (Z83) must be duly signed and
initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form will lead to disqualification
during the selection process. Applications submitted using the old Z83, as well
as not submitting the required documents will result in the application not being
considered. All applications, including those submitted via registered mail must
reach the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date; late
applications will not be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 27/270 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION
OFFICER IN THE OFFICE OF THE MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE
COUNCIL REF NO: S4.1/07/01
Directorate: Office Of the Head of Department
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in administration/ public administration and/or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 7. three (3) years experience applicable to the
relevant discipline at Assistant Director level. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the
Executive Authority’s portfolio, Proven management competencies, Working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa.
Computer literacy, Flexibility, Verbal and written communication skills and
Interpersonal relations. Analytical thinking, Leadership, Teamwork, Ability to
work under pressure, Proven management competencies, Understanding of
the Public Service Regulations and related prescripts.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
Executive Authority. Liaise with internal and external role players with regard to
matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority. Render a
Cabinet/Executive Council support service to the Executive Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J Jafta at 069 224 6157
141
NOTE : (Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply)
142
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts and
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference. An
indication in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : The Head of Department, Department of Community Safety and Transport
Management, Private Bag X19, Mmabatho, 2735 Office No. 105, 1st Floor,
Tirelo Building, Cnr Albert Luthuli Drive and Dr. James Moroka Drive, for
Attention Kegomoditswe Makaota Tel No: (018) 200 8258 OR email to the
relevant e-mail address associated with the post applied for. E-Mail address:
CSTMrecruitment03@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the improved Z83, approved to be utilized
with effect 01 January 2021, which must be completed in such a manner that
provides sufficient information about your candidature and the post applied for
by completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed and initials on
the second page are not mandatory. Should the applicant/s use incorrect
application form for employment (Z83), or not compliant to the notes, the
application/s will not be considered for selection purposes (disqualified). The
Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae with at least three (3)
names of referees with current contact details. Subjects of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Completion of the Z83 form: Part
A: All fields must be fully completed. Parts B: All fields, except date of birth and
ID number, may be left blank. Part C, D, E, F and G may be left blank, marked
as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position
applied for and as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information, however question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment
into the Public Service. Applicants do not have to submit
copies//proof/certificates/attachments/drivers licence/qualifications on
application, only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. The employment
application form (Z83) is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department,
and it is accessible on the DPSA web-site, www.dpsa.gov.za Failure to submit
or comply with the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Should the applicant fail to submit or not comply with the requested
documents, or not meet minimum requirements of the job as per the post
advertised, this will result in the employment application not being considered.
Qualifications of shortlisted candidates will be verified with SAQA. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish this Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
only when shortlisted. Positions requiring tertiary qualification/s must be
accompanied by copies of academic record/transcript(s). Candidates must
indicate the number of the post/reference number in their applications.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must
direct their queries to the person reflected as enquiries below the post applied
for. Applications should be forwarded in time to the department since
applications received after the closing date indicated below will as a rule not
be accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. The
Department reserves the right not to make appointments and correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Personnel suitability check records
will be conducted. Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a
Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any business with organ of
State. They must also disclose or inform whether he/she is performing any
additional remunerative work outside his /her normal duties. All appointments
are subjected to a positive qualifications verification as well as security
clearance. SMS appointments are also subjected to SMS competency
assessment as a DPSA requirement. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts
and positions with requisite skills will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job. Applicants who do not
possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate shall be considered for shortlisting and
interviews but cannot be appointed before they successfully obtain the
143
certificate. (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) is offered by the National School of
government, information can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post must be in possession
of such, prior to taking up the post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/271 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT OPERATIONS REF NO: 42/2025/26
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Government Fleet
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Bojanala
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate plus a recognised NQF 7 Qualification in Public
Administration/Administration Management or equivalent qualification. Five (5)
years of experience at middle/ senior managerial level in Administration. The
requirements for appointment at SMS Level include the successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by NSG. Valid
Drivers’ License. Knowledge: Knowledge of Government Communications
Regulatory Frameworks. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Knowledge of public services Act, public services regulations and
frameworks. Ability to Conceptualise policy and apply it successfully. Skills:
Written and verbal communication skills at a high level (report writing,
presentation, etc.). Planning and organising. Computer Literacy. Negotiation.
Must have good interpersonal skills and be able to maintain positive
interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently and as part of the team.
Must be willing to travel and be able to work under pressure. Must be able to
manage and empower staff. High level of reliability, ability to act with tact and
discretion. Personal Attributes: A creative, assertive and confident approach.
Ample initiative and an independent work ethic, self–motivated and reliable.
Ability to provide vision, set organisational direction and inspire others to
deliver organisational mandate. Must have good interpersonal skills and be
able to maintain positive interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently
and as part of the team. Must be willing to travel and be able to work under
pressure. Must be able to manage and empower staff. High level of reliability,
ability to act with tact and discretion. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the District by monitoring law and order for all modes of transport
through law enforcement services. Oversee monitoring, evaluating and
oversight of Police Services. Ensure implementation of partnerships strategy
to mobilize role players and stakeholders to strengthen service delivery by
Police Service. Ensure implementation of Road Safety within the District.
Ensure the provision of Government fleet Services in the District. Managing the
provision of Transport Operations. Ensure management and controlling
operator licenses and permits. Managing the provision of Corporate
Management Services within the District. Facilitation of District development
model for the Department. Provide strategic Leadership. Manage key areas of
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PT Mohono Tel No: (018) 200 8101
144
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/272 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE: EDEN
(OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: AGR 27/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (engineering) experience. A valid driving license
(Code B or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical:
Project Management; Technical design and analysis; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal compliance;
Technical report writing, Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving and
analysis; Decision making; Teamwork; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related functions; Provide
input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and submit reports as
required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain databases; Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Muller at Tel No: (044) 803 3721
POST 27/273 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE: EDEN
(RIVERSDALE) REF NO: AGR 28/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
145
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (engineering) experience. A valid driving license
(Code B or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical:
Project Management; Technical design and analysis; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal compliance;
Technical report writing, Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving and
analysis; Decision making; Teamwork; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related functions; Provide
input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and submit reports as
required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain databases; Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Muller Tel No: (044) 803 3721
POST 27/274 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE
(CALEDON) REF NO: AGR 52/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 - Grade C: R586 665 per annum, (Salary will be determined
based on post registration experience as per OSD prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant
qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant post qualification technical
(engineering) experience. Compulsory registration with the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Project
Management; Technical design and analysis knowledge; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal compliance;
Technical report writing, technical consulting. Skills needed: Problem solving
and analysis; Decision making; Teamwork; Creativity; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management; Ability to work
under adverse field conditions; Ability to work under pressure; Prepared to
travel.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related functions; Provide
input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and submit reports as
required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain databases; Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering. technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Jepthas Tel No: (028) 425 4819
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
146
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 27/275 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DEDAT
31/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) with Accounting or Economics as majors; A minimum of 1 year
relevant experience in a management accounting or similar environment; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Management; Customer service;
Project Management; Accounting Finance and Audit; Information Technology;
Financial analysis; People Management. Skills in the following: Numeracy;
Computer Literacy in MS Office; Language skills; Presentation; Research;
Excellent verbal and written communication skills; Interpersonal relations;
Flexibility; Innovation; Organising; Delivering Results and Meeting Customer
Expectations; Adhering to Principles and Values; Writing and Reporting;
Presenting and Communicating Information; Working with People; Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist in the co-ordination of the Budgeting and Planning portfolio; Assist in the
co-ordination Revenue and Expenditure Portfolio; Assist in the co-ordination of
the Reporting portfolio.
ENQUIRIES : Priyanka Moodley: Priyanka.Moodley@westerncape.gov.za or Tel No: (021)
8290209
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/276 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALTY) PAEDIATRIC ENDOCRINOLOGY
(24 Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with the professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Sub-Specialist in
Paediatrics. Inherent requirements of the job: FCPaed and MMed (Paed) is a
requirement. Must provide after-hours emergency services and participate in
commuted overtime at 16 hours per week within the Department of Paediatrics
and Child Health Platform. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in
and/or demonstrated interest in working with children and their caregivers.
147
Excellent interpersonal and communication skills (both written and oral).
Demonstrated understanding of being mindful of cultural differences and
adapting communication and administration methods to respect diverse
patients. Strong attention to detail and ability to work both independently and
collaboratively within a team. Demonstrated commitment to ethical conduct,
patient safety, and maintaining confidentiality. Experience in general
paediatrics at a post graduate level. Ability and willingness to supervise medical
students and rotating registrars.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Comprehensive Paediatric Endocrinology and
general paediatric clinical care and service delivery in the Western Cape.
Paediatric Endocrinology service outpatient and inpatients under the direction
of specialist supervisors. After-hours calls as for senior registrars in the
Department of Paediatrics & Child Health (UCT) and responsible to the director
of the registrar programme. Administration and Management of the Unit of
Paediatric Endocrinology including ensuring correct patient data and statistics.
Efficiently manage clinical notes, including generating letters, providing
feedback to referring doctors, contributing to databases, and using designated
ICD-10 codes. Teaching Contribute and facilitate learning of undergraduate
students and Paediatric registrars attached to the clinic and ward. Learning:
Rotation through areas of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital. To
acquire training in Paediatric Endocrinology including completing the required
training logbook and to successfully pass the College of Medicine of South
Africa Fellowship in Paediatric Endocrinology examination to enable
certification as a Paediatric Endocrinologist with the HPCSA. Attendance and
presentation at Academic Departmental meetings and journal clubs Research:
Involvement with existing research projects, clinical reviews, audits and clinical
trials. The post holder is expected to conduct a research project towards
producing a Master’s (MPhil) thesis through UCT.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Carrihill, email: michelle.carrihill@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University/ University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Red Cross War Memorial
Childrens Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plain District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. Senior
Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar
will be on contract. Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. As
directed by the Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants
must note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and
that their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and
148
previous employment. It will be expected of shortlisted candidates to be:
available at the venue on the time and date as determined by the Department
and bring along recently (not older than 6 months) certified copies of your
Identity Document (ID), driver’s license (if applicable for the post), qualification
and/or proof of registration at relevant statutory body. Failure to adhere to the
aforementioned may lead to his/her application being disqualified and not
further considered.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/277 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to be on call and availability for
Emergency situations. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong record of
clinical expertise, clinical governance, research, teaching and training at under
and postgraduate levels. Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership,
administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to
supervise clinical training and teaching. Appropriate experience in teaching,
training and supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients, including
outreach services within the hospital catchment. Management of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Leadership of a multi-
disciplinary clinical team. Academic teaching, training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Rasmita Ori Tel No: (021) 826 5863
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job application/on
appointment. This concession is only applicable on health professionals whom
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/278 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PAEDIATRIC SURGERY)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
149
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and
after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training
complex but could be required to work across the platform on request. FCS
part 1 as well as at least 2 years clinical experience in Surgery and/or Trauma
and/or Paediatric Surgery. A current certificate of ATLS and APLS Basic
Surgical Skills course completed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in research/publications. Effective leadership and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Provision of safe surgical care to patients. Peri-operative care of surgical
patients. Participation in Intensive Care management. Learn the art and
science of Paediatric Surgery, trauma, and burn care. Attend tutorials and
assist with the training of interns, medical students, nursing staff and
paramedics. On-site after-hours duties relating to care of newly arriving acute
patients as well as inpatients. Involvement in research/audits relating to
paediatric surgery, trauma, and burn care.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K. Moodley, E-mail: kitesh.moodley@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It
may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution
during their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior
to any decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also
discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines.”-“Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/279 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 (PAEDIATRIC MEDICINE) (X8 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital (X4 Posts)
George Regional Hospital (X1 Post)
Groote Schuur Hospital (X2 Posts)
New Somerset Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professions council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Must
provide after-hours emergency service. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): 12 months post-internship experience in paediatrics (under
150
onsite supervision of a registered paediatrician), including at least 6 months of
clinical experience in general paediatrics and clinical experience with neonatal
intubation and ventilation, is required. The Diploma in Child Health, the NALS
certificate and additional paediatric/ neonatal experience are strongly
recommended. Applicants must have a valid APLS as well as a valid FCPaeds
part 1. Ability to work in a professional team. Post-internship experience in
general paediatrics (under onsite supervision of a registered paediatrician),
including clinical experience with neonatal intubation and ventilation. Ability to
achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their
families. Must assist with the provision of a paediatric service. Must participate
in academic activities. Completion of /or exemption from South African
Community Service Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills.
Experience with teamwork, planning, organizing and coordination. Excellent
interpersonal, administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving
skills Display empathy for patients, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic
treatment. Good time management.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families. Supervision
of junior medical staff to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes.
Interaction with (and supervision of where necessary) nursing staff, allied
professionals, and students. Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the
course of clinical work. Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate
medical students. Achieve success in the FCPaed II exam of the CMSA prior
to the end of the four-year contract. Graduation with an MMed (Paediatrics)
degree prior to the end of the four-year contract. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Clinical leadership in the workplace.
Administration of registrar rosters and the teaching program. Improve
professional competence by regular self-learning and reflection with the
application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Salie Tel No: (021) 658-5430 Email:
Moegamad.salie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
of Registrars will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/280 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (CLINICAL POLICY AND
GOVERNANCE UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Directorate: Service Priorities Coordination
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of
151
SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5-years
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6-years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10-years
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel with in South Africa
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Clinical policy and governance,
management and implementation. Knowledge of financial prescripts and ability
to do costing and budgeting. Knowledge of the Provincial Strategic Plan of the
WC: Annual Performance Plan & Healthcare 2030 (service strategy).
Incumbent must demonstrate a high level of computer literacy (Microsoft
Office: Excel, Word and Powerpoint). Excellent analytical, research, report
writing and presentation skills. Knowledge of the provision of clinical services
for communicable and non-communicable diseases. Appropriate diverse
experience in public health programmes, clinical policy, projects and/or
systems. Appropriate experience in policy development and translation and
implementation. -Appropriate clinical experience in the provision of services,
inclusive of communicable and non-communicable diseases.
DUTIES : Develop, adapt, and update clinical policies, governance frameworks and tools
for communicable & non-communicable diseases (e.g., HIV, TB, STIs, cancer,
maternal & child health). Amend and update clinical policies, guidelines, and
tools (e.g., PACK Adult, PACK Child, PACK Adolescent, CGE, Maternal and
Child Health) to ensure alignment with Standard Treatment Guidelines,
Western Cape policies and circulars. Efficient planning to give effect to policy
development and implementation. Convene and support clinical policy and
governance review meetings for key interventions across the life course.
Provide clinical support to other units within the SPC directorate on key health
priorities, including NCDs, Mental health, perinatal, maternal and child
interventions. Serve and provide technical input into national and provincial
task teams, advisory committees, coordination and governance structures.
Lead the Clinical Governance and Evaluation (CGE) process. Monitor and
Evaluate implementation of clinical policy and guideline compliance. Support
training and skills development initiatives in collaboration with the Provincial
Development Centre (PDC). Coordinate and contribute to research activities,
as required. Contribute to financial and human resource management in
alignment with programmatic needs and business plans.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Goeiman Tel No: (021) 815-8741
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Assessment. The pool of applicants may
be considered for other vacant Medical Officer posts within the Chief Director
Emergency & Clinical Services Support, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
Technical support in respect of clinical policy and governance to districts and
relevant NPO partners (e.g., HAST Medical Officers, Family Physicians, Public
health specialists) as required.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
152
POST 27/281 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing
and able to work shifts. Willing and able to participate in after-hours duties.
Willing and able to work with patients with infectious diseases. A valid (code
B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge,
expertise, and experience with regards to providing comprehensive clinical
assessment and appropriate management of Mental Health Care Users who
present to the hospital. Appropriate ongoing management of Mental Health
Care Users admitted as involuntary mental health care users. Ability to function
in a team under pressure in a high volume, high stress environment. Provide
an efficient administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters
and medico-legal work. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with
regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables, and equipment.
Administrative and IT skills.
DUTIES : Assessment and ongoing management of Mental Health Care Users who
present to the hospital. Consultation Liaison - assessment of patients in other
departments in the hospital who are referred for psychiatric assessment.
Assisting with supervision and teaching of medical students. Provide
comprehensive medical care to patients by diagnosing and treating illnesses,
injuries, and other health conditions. Prescribe and manage treatment plans,
including psychotropic and non-psychotropic medication and therapies.
Maintain accurate and detailed patient records. Refer patients to specialists or
other healthcare providers when necessary. Liaison with tertiary psychiatric
services for the transfer of patients to tertiary psychiatric hospitals. Complete
the required CPD activities to maintain registration with the HPCSA. Participate
in training and educational programs for healthcare professionals to ensure
continued learning and development. Complete and submit required medical
reports and documentation for legal and administrative purposes. Uphold the
reputation and integrity of the medical profession and the ethos of the
institution.
ENQUIRIES : Dr I Tayob Tel No: (021) 377-4646
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
153
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status) The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/282 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R848,862 per annum
Grade 2: R917,634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Medicine Supply
Management principles. Problem solving with analytical skills while being
innovative and patient orientated. Ability to plan/organize/motivate a team.
Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures.
Computer literacy (Word, Excel) as well as demonstrating experience in using
JAC/ Well Sky dispensing system.
DUTIES : Dispensing and clinical interventions with medical and nursing staff. Medicine
supply management. Implementing and monitoring adherence to policies. Data
collection and Adverse Drug Management reporting. Assisting with training,
teaching and mentoring of Pharmacy staff. Supporting the Pharmacy
supervisor in providing an efficient service via process improvement strategies,
complying with audit requirements and being involved in performance
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Naicker Tel No: (021) 404 3216
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/283 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
154
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Diazville CDC, Saldanha Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in SA. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration as Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service. Grade 3: A minimum
of 13 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with
SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work as a pharmacist within a multi-disciplinary team within
the sub-district. (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and
procedures, Good numeric skills/computer literate, Knowledge of Drug Supply
Management Principles, Standard Treatment Guidelines and Provincial Code
List. Experience with JAC/WellSky dispensing system. Meticulous and
attention to detail. Good communication skills. Time management, strategic
planning, prioritizing of tasks. Financial management and reporting. Good
People Management and interpersonal skills, team orientated. Client
orientated and Customer focused. Problem solving and analysis. Mentoring
and Tutoring skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Drug supply management within the Saldanha Bay Sub-District. Governance
of dispensing practices within sub-district. Ensuring improved access to
medication through strengthening of the CDU and/or DMOC. Finance and
Supply Chain Management. People Management (in capacity of Delegated
Supervisory Pharmacist). Quality assurance through adherence to Ideal Clinic
and National audits and data collection.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Julius Tel No: (022) 709-7237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/284 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY) (MALE
OBSERVATION UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
155
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness
to work after hours, weekends and public holidays, on day and night duty as
required. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of legal framework and regulations regarding
nursing practice. Good leadership and people management skills, maintain
constructive relationships with members of the multi-disciplinary team.
Computer literacy. Basic financial management skills.
DUTIES : Ensure adherence to MHCA prescripts and other legislation. Effective
management of the ward, hospital after hours, over weekends and public
holidays on a planned basis and maintain good working relationship amongst
all members of staff. Manage and monitor the effective utilisation of human,
financial and physical resources as per departmental policies. Co-ordinate and
actively participate in focused training and development of permanent staff and
nursing students according to development plan. Participate in analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Photo Tel No: (021) 826-5801
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical and oral/written assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/285 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
midwife. A post basic nursing qualification with duration of at least 1-year
Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48) accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and midwife. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years’ appropriate nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification (R48).
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal-,
leadership and communication skills, strong sense of responsibility.
Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation,
regulators and. Departmental Policies. Knowledge of Human resources and
financial guidelines, policies and protocols. In depth knowledge and application
of Ideal clinic and National Core Standards. Knowledge of Community Oriented
Primary care. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : The effective management and execution of relevant Curative Programmes
within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the
provision of necessary health care. The effective management and execution
of relevant Child Health within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for
the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care The effective
management and execution of relevant Woman’s Health Services within the
scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision
of necessary health care The effective management and execution of relevant
HAST programmes within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the
patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care Effective and efficient
management of the PHC facility, mobiles, satellites and security.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AR Louw Tel No: (022) 709-5067
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
156
POST 27/286 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER SPECIALITY(ORTHOPAEDICS)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing: Orthopaedic Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years of
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirements of the job: Perform after-hour and weekend duties.
Competencies: (knowledge/skills): Principles of Management: Supervisory,
leadership, problem solving, conflict resolution and
interpersonal/communication skills. Knowledge of Nursing legislation related to
legal and ethical nursing practices and framework. Human Resources, Labour
relations legislation and Financial Management, including computer literacy
(i.e. Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Extensive knowledge in
General Nursing and the relevant Nursing Specialty including public sector
policies and protocols.
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership in the allocated area to realise the strategic goals
and objectives of the Nursing Division. Responsible for the co-ordination and
delivery of quality nursing care within the relevant department. Participate in
formulation, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards,
procedures and regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant
Department. Provide effective support and management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as Functional Business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance, training and personal development of
self and subordinates including management of underperformance and
grievances. Collect, provide and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery, including participation in and encouragement of nursing
research.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. L.J. De Palo Tel No: (021) 404-2105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/287 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: THEATRE &
CSSD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree) in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic qualification, with a duration of at least – year, accredited with the
SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years of
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-
year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the
job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness
to perform after-hour and weekend standby duties for the hospital. Willingness
to relief the Deputy Manager Nursing and Operational Managers in the facility.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Appropriate knowledge of legislation, regulations and Departmental
Policies. The ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective interpretation,
157
leadership, execution of discipline, decision-making and conflict resolution
skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for the coordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
Operating Theatre and Central Sterilization Unit. Participate in formulating,
monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures
and regulations within the relevant department. Manage human resources,
including staff performance, people development and disciplinary processes.
Manage material and financial resources. Provide effective support and
management of functional business unit management principles. Effective
management of information to enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
can be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/288 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREA:
ORTHOPAEDICS)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e diploma/
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC
in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Orthopaedic Nursing. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period above must be appropriate/ recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1 year post-basic
qualification in the relevant speciality. Inherent requirements of the job: Will be
required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Ability to function independently as
well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective communication,
interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Good
organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure. Knowledge and
insight of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within
the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal, specialized Nursing service as an Operational
Manager in an Orthopaedics setting. Effective management and utilization of
Human and Financial Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the
area. Initiate and participate in training, development and research within the
nursing department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the
institution. To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
self development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/289 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (COMPREHENSIVE
HEALTH SERVICES)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands Health District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. (This
dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme Coordinator
158
where it is an inherent requirement of the job, incumbent to maintain
registration with the SANC). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of
7 years appropriate or recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to work overtime
if and when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Coordination and
effective management of clinical programmes in the district, with a focus quality
improvement, integration, and health outcomes. Ability to analyse Health
Systems information, compile and present statistical information. Good
communication, facilitating, and interpersonal skills. Project Management and
Financial Management skills. Use of digital health tools and information
systems to support high-quality health service delivery and reporting.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate and support the implementation of HIV/AIDS/STI/TB/VMMC,
mental health, chronic conditions,1st 1000 days strategy, adolescent,
women’s, and men’s health services. Stakeholder Engagement and COPC
Implementation: Strengthen internal and external stakeholder collaboration
and ensure effective implementation of integrated health services
Implementation of Differentiated Models of Care (DMoC) and Data-Driven
Project Management Digital Health Strengthening and Innovation
Strengthened use of digital health tools and information systems to support
high-quality health service delivery and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Bester Tel No: (023) 348-8118
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a computer literacy test. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Cape Winelands District Office for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/290 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
MIDWIFERY/NEONATOLOGY)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Otto du Plessis Hospital, Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing and at least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Advanced Midwifery after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day/night
duty, weekends and public holidays. Also be prepared to assist in other nursing
units as the operational needs requires. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Planning and organisational
skills. Knowledge of Legislation and Policies of the Department of Health
relevant to clinical practice.
DUTIES : Provide holistic specialized maternal care to patients and health care education
to patients and families. Provide direction, guidance and supervision to
subordinates. Ensure implementation of quality improvement plan. Maintain
constructive and supporting working relationships with nursing services and
other stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Adams Tel No: (028) 424-1167
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
159
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will
be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period
of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Overberg District.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/291 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (RADIOGRAPHY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Radiographer in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer in Ultrasound
Radiography in respect of South African qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Radiographer in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of South African qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer in Ultrasound
Radiography in respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of 21
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Ability and willingness to be available for emergencies/mass incidents.
Willingness to perform outreach at Wesfleur Hospital (1-2 days per week).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in PACS (Picture
Archiving and Communication Systems)/RIS (Radiology Information Systems).
Comprehensive sonography education and extensive hands-on experience,
demonstrating a strong commitment to professional growth and lifelong
learning through advanced education, research, and staff training. A thorough
understanding of human anatomy and physiology is required, along with
knowledge of disease pathologies as they relate to sonographic findings. Ability
to perform cranial, abdominal, vascular, musculoskeletal, obstetrics and
gynaecology ultrasound. A commitment to ethical practice, maintaining patient
confidentiality, a professional demeanour, and the capacity to manage stressful
situations calmly are essential. Strong abilities to interact effectively with both
patients and medical staff, clearly explaining technical information and
collaborating on patient care. Understanding of basic computer programs and
the use of reporting systems.
DUTIES : Provide a sonography service to support the general specialist disciplines at
New Somerset Hospital and outreach Wesfleur Hospital (1-2 days per week).
Provision of patient centred ultrasound service by adhering to departmental
protocols, procedures and professional conduct. Providing management of
ultrasound services while producing Ultrasound imaging, reporting and
statistics. Effective and efficient operational utilisation of the sonography
service within the Radiography department, including Human, Financial and
Asset resources where applicable. Support to managers and colleagues which
160
provides effective interdepartmental communication. Adhering to self-
development. CPD compliancy and training of students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W. Omar Tel No: (021) 402 6246
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Directorate: Meto Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/292 : LECTURER: POSTGRADUATE DIPLOMA NURSING PROGRAMMES
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-D1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-D2) per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing (based at: Metro Campus) (Directorate:
Western Cape College of Nursing)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification accredited with the
SANC (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife or Psychiatric (where applicable). Post-basic qualification
in Nursing Education registered with SANC. A specialist qualification in the
following fields, Emergency Nursing, Peri Operative Nursing, Mental Health
Nursing, Critical Care Nursing, Primary Care Nursing, Midwifery, Orthopedic
Nursing, registered with SANC. A relevant master’s degree (NQF L9).
Registration with a professional council: Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife or
Psychiatric (where applicable). Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in
Nursing Education after obtaining the 1- year post-basic qualification in Nursing
Education. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to travel. Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Possess knowledge
of relevant Legislation, Acts, Prescripts and Policy frameworks informing the
area of operation. Knowledge of nursing education programmes and
curriculum. Proficiency in teaching and assessment in Nursing Education
including evaluation approaches. Possess good communication (written &
verbal) and presentation skills. Knowledge of policy development,
interpretation, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. Sound conflict
management and decision making / problem solving skills. Good research and
analytical skills. Good managerial and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide education and training to student nurses. Coordinate clinical learning
exposure to students between college and clinical areas. Conduct clinical
accompaniment of students. Coordinate the teaching and learning and
assessment of R635 programmes. Develop and ensure implementation of
quality assurance programmes. Collaborate with other internal and external
stakeholders and build a sound relationship within the Department.
Supervision of students. Participate in the development and review of nursing
curricula for Post Graduate Diploma Programmes Implements the new nursing
programmes in line with SANC and CHE regulations. Participate in the
provisioning of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) activities at the
Campus. Participate in all governance structures of the College. Support the
mission and promote the image of the college.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Magerman Tel No: (021) 684-1202
161
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific post-basic qualification with
the South African Nursing Council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/293 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Trauma and Emergency Nursing. Registration with a
professional council: Registered with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Trauma & Emergency Nursing science
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan, organise &
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving & decision making.
Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Intensive and High care unit.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the Trauma & Emergency
department. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support clinical staff with surgical and medical procedures. Utilize human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain and
promote professional growth/ethical standards and development of self and
others. Display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the
execution of duties, while practising within the legislation, regulations and
protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
162
POST 27/294 : CONTROL LAUNDRY MANAGER (CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AND
OPERATIONS)
Directorate: Facilities Management, Sub-Directorate: Laundry Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate management experience in project
management and management experience in the laundry and linen
environment will be to your advantage. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Motivational
and leadership skills. Project management. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act and Public Procurement
procedures.
DUTIES : Project management of laundry revitalization, including equipment, projects.
Training and mentorship of laundry and linen management staff. Provide
technical support to the On-Premises Laundries. Draft laundry technical
reports. Provide relief duties as Acting Control Laundry Manger at Central
Laundries and Linen Services. Function as a Technical Liaison Officer for the
outsourced laundry equipment maintenance contract.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Jantjies Tel No: (021) 918-1702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/295 : BED MANAGER (NIGHT DUTY)
SALARY : R468,459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma/
Degree registrable with an appropriate Health Professional Council.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital setting in Nursing, Healthcare
or Therapy. Appropriate managerial experience. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts – Monday –
Friday 3 pm- 11pm. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight
of relevant legislation and policy related to bed management within the public
sector, and the ability to deliver quality service. Ability to promote a quality
service through the setting, implementation and monitoring of policy and
standards. Ability to think and function independently, to collect and collate
information, and to critically analyse data and produce reports. Computer
literacy skills.
DUTIES : Responsible to plan, manage, co-ordinate and maintain patient flow activities
relating to bed management at Groote Schuur Hospital. Utilise and manage
resources with a focus on cost containment. Participate in training,
development, quality improvement initiatives and research. Deliver support
and provide feedback to the institution and department regarding optimal
utilisation of Hospital inpatient facilities and resources. Manage, evaluate and
report on all aspects of patient flow management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Moodley Tel No: (021) 404-2115
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/296 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: QUALITY IMPROVEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3 year National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC). Experience: Appropriate experience of utilising recognised
quality improvement methodology in a healthcare environment. Appropriate
Hospital experience is an advantage. Appropriate experience and Evidence of
delivering training in Quality Improvement methodology to groups and
individuals. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
163
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced coaching experience to
admin and clinical personnel in a healthcare ecosystem. Extensive working
experience utilising recognised improvement methodology in a healthcare
setting. Experience in translating strategic goals of health care services using
quality improvement methodology to maximise efficiency and achieve good
health outcomes. Experience of utilising advanced data analysis to make
recommendations to management on process improvement in a health care
setting. Advanced computer skills in Microsoft 365 packages.
DUTIES : Work within a healthcare ecosystem to support health care facilities and
services along the patient pathway. Work with internal and external
stakeholders to facilitate process improvement to the healthcare ecosystem.
Lead and direct process improvement projects that delivers measurable
operational performance improvement. Coaching of all levels of healthcare
personnel in recognised quality improvement methodology to improve
operational performance. Create an empowering culture within teams to
translate strategic direction into meaningful sustainable objectives. Develop a
training program, based on an established service improvement framework
that can sustain improvement thinking and application, and assist with the
development and training material to different staff categories.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Vaughan Tel No: (021) 799-1201 or email:
Jonathan.Vaughan@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Kindly note that this post on GSH establishment; Incumbent will be seconded
to Victoria hospital. Shortlisted candidates might be subjected to a competency
test. No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/297 : RADIOGRAPHER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICAL PHYSICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy Technologist
(RTT). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy
Technologist (RTT). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as an Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy
Technologist (RTT) in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Radiation Laboratory
Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy Technologist (RTT) in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Radiation Laboratory
Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy Technologist (RTT) in respect of SA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or
Radiation Therapy Technologist (RTT) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the as a Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or
Radiation Therapy Technologist (RTT) in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Radiation Laboratory Technologist (RLT) or Radiation Therapy Technologist
(RTT) respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement
of the job: Must be willing to work shifts when required. Must have the physical
and mental ability to handle medical devices, radioactive sources and
equipment in a high-pressure environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Physical and mental ability to work with radiation devices or radioactive
sources, in a high-pressure environment. Technical ability to manufacture and
design appliances, together with the required academic ability. Good verbal
and written communication skills as well as interpersonal skills allowing for the
candidate to work both in team and individual context. Ability to work with
164
advanced computer systems and adhere to safety standards. Ability to work
under pressure to tight deadlines. Knowledge of radiation and general safety
guidelines and technical proficiency in terms of radiation laboratory and general
workshop manufacturing processes and use of radioisotopes. Experience in a
radiation laboratory environment and brachytherapy.
DUTIES : Assist with the manufacturing and design of devices used for radiotherapy
patient treatment, as well as general administration of the tasks completed
within the laboratory. Have responsibility for the custodianship, storage and
cleaning of radioactive sources, as well as design and manufacture of
treatment and shielding devices for treatment of radiotherapy patients. Assist
with the management of brachytherapy equipment and the treatment of
radiotherapy patients, and have the knowledge of associated dosimetry. Be
responsible for the teaching and training programme for staff and trainees that
forms part of the multidisciplinary teams Assist with general oncology related
duties in the department. Assist medical physics with general radiotherapy and
brachytherapy/isotope quality assurance procedures as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Joubert Tel No: (021) 404-6240/6266 or nanette.joubert@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/298 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach George Sub District (Stationed at Garden Route
District Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist. Registration with a
Professional Council: Current registration with the HPCSA as a Speech
Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Speech Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of SA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as
Speech Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees.
A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as a Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental requirements and protocols.
Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Good computer skills
(MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Comply with National Core Standards and
or ideal facility/clinic requirements as applicable. Ability to provide Speech
Therapy services independently and as part of a team. Clinical therapeutic
skills including assessment techniques, treatment, discharge planning and
follow up as needed.
DUTIES : To provide Speech Therapy services at facility level (hospitals and primary
healthcare facilities) and community level in the Garden Route District,
165
inclusive of adult and paediatric patients with disorders in speech, language,
feeding, swallowing, fluency, voice and cognition within the scope of practice
of a Speech Therapist. To provide education and training to healthcare
professionals, community health workers and patients and plan Speech
Therapy related health awareness activities according to the health awareness
calendar. To adhere to departmental rules and values. To work and be part of
a multi-disciplinary team. Daily collection and monthly submission of data as
per departmental protocols. Effective, efficient and optimal use of resource
management such as managing stock and ordering consumables. Complete
weekly stats and service reports as required. Maintain own professional
development, facilitate in-service training as identified. Manage review of
personal performance. Provide relevant relief duty in absence of a peer
colleague and provide support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Zandberg Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a practical test. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period of 3
months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/299 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE T TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 233 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade1: None after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid Code B/C driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adhere to departmental requirements whilst rendering
services to in-patients (and out-patients) within the medical, orthopaedic,
surgical, psychiatric and paediatric fields. Ability to work as part of the multi-
disciplinary team and have good communication skills. Ability to comply with
National Core Standards requirements and appropriate computer skills.
Knowledge on conducting comprehensive assessments, splinting, wheelchair
assessments and the ability to contribute towards patient discharge plans.
DUTIES : Manage Clinical service provision in accordance with the departmental
requirements and protocols. Conduct assessments and execute holistic
treatment plans within all the work areas. Multidisciplinary team involvement;
professional advocacy; data analysis and quality improvement; resource
management. Participation in personal, departmental and hospital in-service
and training programs; Mentoring and supervision of the Community Service
Therapist. Systems input and participation within the Metro East Ecosystem:
Contribution to improvement of internal systems within Occupational Therapy
166
and the Allied component; Foster effective relationships with medical
disciplines; liaison with external partners within the ecosystem to establish
clear pathways and linkage to care.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1733
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant Occupational Therapist posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/300 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MAMAGEMENT
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience in an
Information Management environment. Appropriate experience in the key
performance areas of the job. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver's
license (Code B/EB). Willingness to travel across the district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): In-depth knowledge of Information Management prescripts,
guidelines, policies, and National and Provincial indicator datasets, and
indicator development. Good analytical, report writing, and data management
skills with proficiency in data visualization tools, and presentation thereof, with
strong verbal and written communication skills. Advance MS Office computer
literacy skills (MS Office, PowerPoint, Advanced Excel, Microsoft Word). Highly
developed understanding of health information systems such as SINJANI,
DHIS, SharePoint, SPV, PHCIS, Tier.Net, HECTIS, Clinicom and eCCR, to
support. Good leadership and interpersonal skills, with the ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Support the implementation of information management policies, data
collection tools, definitions, standard operating procedures, and monitor and
coordinate data flow processes, according to policy time frames. Support sub-
districts IM and external stakeholders in terms of data management, analysis
and training. CMI audit readiness assessments, data quality monitoring and
data quality improvement projects to strengthen M&E process at Sub-district
and facility level. Roll out and support Health Information Systems within the
district. Management of staff in the component, including staff performance,
R&S process, training, disciplinary process and general support of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs GE Barnardt Tel No: (023) 348-8116
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Cape Winelands District Office for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/301 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Labour Relations.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
independently. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Good
interpersonal, consultation, negotiation, decision-making, conflict management
167
and presentation skills. In-depth understanding and ability to interpret of
relevant legislation pertaining to labour relations.
DUTIES : Investigate misconduct cases and represent the employer at disciplinary
hearings. Conduct grievance investigations and draft findings. Ensure
compliance in terms of Monitoring and Evaluation in relation to Labour relations
statistics and implementation of appropriate interventions. Facilitate
appropriate Labour Related training to all employees. Ensure compliance in
relation to Collective Bargaining. Provide support to investigating officers and
assist with drafting of charge sheets. Provide advice and support to
management and all employees with regards to Labour related matters.
Represent the Department at Conciliations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Gxasheka Tel No: (021) 404 2079
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/302 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (HOSPITAL
FEES AND ADMISSIONS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
and knowledge in Patient Administration, Medical Records, archive in a
Healthcare environment, Case Management, in the administration of Hospital
Memorandum Chapter 18 and UPFS. Appropriate practical experience in
Clinicom, AR, JAC, HIS, BAS and LOGIS systems. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work after hours (weekends, public holidays) and
overtime at short notice. Willingness to rotate and/or relief staff within the
admissions, archive and hospital fees department within the facility. Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written), analytical and problem-solving skills.
Appropriate knowledge and understanding of Hospital Fees, Hospital
Information Systems (Clinicom, Account Receivable, UPFS, Cashiers
Functions, Electronic Data Interchange, JAC, Medical Records and BAS) as
well knowledge of Hospital Memorandum Chapter 18, PFMA, handling of state
money, patient valuables (Chapter 6), applicable policies and prescripts in
respect of revenue generation, reception and medical records, and all circulars,
instructions, policies and procedures related to the above. Ability to execute
duties accurately and working under pressure and meet strict deadlines.
Appropriate supervisory experience to ensure that sound people management
and labour practices are implemented in a Hospital Fees and/or Patient
Administration environment. Computer Literate (Microsoft Excel, Word,
Outlook, Internet).
DUTIES : Supervise admission-, hospital fees- and medical records staff and component
to ensure that sound people management, labour practices and training needs
are executed and implemented. Authorising and releasing journals on BAS,
Clinicom, Accounts Receivables transactions, authorise/do Deposit Day Ends
and Confirmation of the banking of state money. Monthly/yearly reporting to
District Office and Head Office on hospital fees related transactions, in Year
Monitoring, Revenue Action Plan and the reconciliation of BAS and Clinicom
systems. Manage, report and monitor the institutions revenue budget, ensuring
optimal revenue collection and to put mechanisms in place to improve on
revenue targets and the collecting thereof in respect of debtors, medical aid
schemes, state departments, SAPS, SANDF, DCS, COIDA and RAF and
supporting the Case Manager. Management of medical records in respect
handling patient folders and patient documents and the culling/archiving
thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Crous Tel No: (028) 713-8642
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
168
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/303 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Overberg District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management
matters. Appropriate experience of PERSAL and the relevant functions.
Appropriate experience in all aspects of personnel and salary administration.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB, C1) driver’s license.
Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Interpretation and
implementation of HR and Payroll Policies, procedures and practices.
Knowledge of Recruitment and Selection, Staff Performance Management
System, Labour Relations and Human Resource Development.
DUTIES : Responsible for co-ordination, supervision and control of Personnel and Salary
Administration component as well as support to supervisor. Implement and
monitor the relevant policies, procedures, prescripts regarding personnel,
salary, leave and administration in general. Audit and revise leave, SPMS,
PILIR, Pension documentation and assist with Recruitment and Selection.
Implement and monitor all allowance, disallowance, transversal personnel
practices, employment practices, conditions of service and service
terminations documentation. Monitor compliance regarding HR policies,
practices and prescripts. Assist with the compilation of the monthly CMI and
quarterly Human resources Audit Action Plan as well as the monitoring and
evaluation of audit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJ Talmakkies Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates could be subjected to a practical test. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/304 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’S) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
in financial and expenditure management. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Appropriate working experience on BAS and Logis systems. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Accounting Officer’s
System of the Department of Health. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Authorising of payments on the BAS and Logis systems. Compliance
Monitoring including adherence to policies and feedback to Internal Control
Audit Findings. Maintenance and Clearance of Asset and Liability Accounts.
Managing Revenue and Petty Cash Administration. Compilation of Annual
Financial Statements, In Year Monitoring (IYM), Leases and 30-Day Payment
Reporting. Human Resource Development and Management. Support to
Supervisor and Finance Component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Silwanyana Tel No: (021) 508-7451.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
169
POST 27/305 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (CBS TRAINER)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: A valid driver’s (Code B/EB) license. Appropriate training/facilitation
experience. Willingness to travel extensively in the district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of Community Based
Services and the NPO Sector. Computer literacy in (Ms. Excel, Word and
PowerPoint). Proficiency in report writing.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate, facilitate and teach the integrated formal training programme
developed for the Community Health Workers to address wellness in
communities. Facilitate the in-service training/updating of skills and
competencies (including mentoring and coaching) of the Community Health
Workers, patient care assistants, community residential care workers.
Conduct, monitor and evaluate all training activities offered to Community
Health Workers. Support other professional nurse training initiatives of the
NPO outreach team leaders according to needs identified of the district.
Facilitate and compile relevant training related reports and other administrative
duties with involvement of all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Delport Tel No: (022) 814-0312
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the West Coast District, for a
period of three months from date of advert. No payment of any kind is required
when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/306 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X4
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Macassar CDC
Kleinvlei CDC
Nolungile CDC
Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
170
3: A Minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work after hours. Willingness to rotate
to other departments if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function and make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary
team. Good communication, interpersonal, leadership and conflict resolution
skills. Knowledge of grievance procedure and disciplinary legislation.
Knowledge and understanding of nursing Code of Ethics and Professional
Practice of the SANC of nursing Standard of Practice and scope of practice.
Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Practice
nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant
to nursing and health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with
nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources
efficiently and effectively. Participate in training programmes and research
activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Viana Tel No: (021) 857-2330
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a
change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant Professional Nurse General posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
Candidates will be required to undertake a pre-entry assessment test/practical
assessment and formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/307 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict
resolution skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge
of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Vermeulen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
171
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/308 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
(Plus, a 8% non-pensionable rural allowance of your annum basic salary)
CENTRE : Uniondale Hospital, George Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts, including weekends, public
holidays and night shift. A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Willingness to rotate in the wards within the hospital and to the clinics in
the Sub District when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function independently, as well as in a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Excellent communication
and interpersonal skills (both written and verbal). Knowledges of Nursing
Practice, Infection and Prevention Control measures and practices.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Lewis-Peters Tel No: (044) 814-1117
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/309 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY TECHNICIAN GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R269 106 per annum
172
Grade 2: R313 800 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapy Technician. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapy Technician.
Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an appropriate qualification or
prescribed in-service training that allows for the required registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapy Technician. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
after obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that
allows for the required registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapy technician. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
communication and writing skills. Ability to function as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Good interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Appropriate
experience in providing intervention for clients with mental health challenges.
DUTIES : Contribute to Occupational Therapy Assessments through conducting
screening evaluations. Contribute to Occupational Therapy intervention
through planning, implementing and evaluating specified activities according
to prescribed programme. Assist Occupational Therapist with Occupational
Therapy Intervention in specified Occupational Therapy Area. Perform all
administrative tasks related to Clinical Service Delivery. Perform general
administrative duties not related to Clinical Service Delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Louw Tel No: (021) 940-4590
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointments on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar other vacant similar posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/310 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna CDC, Knysna/Bitou Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic). Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant Post Basic or Pharmacist Assistant Post
Basic (Institutional) and annual proof of registration/ proof of payment.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license
(code B/EB) and willingness to travel in the Sub-district. Willingness to work at
other clinics in the Sub-district. Willingness to work overtime and after hours as
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure.
Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures. Good
numeric skills. Knowledge and/or experience in handling pharmaceutical
supplies particularly in clinic environment, including appropriate cold chain
173
practices. Knowledge of Drug Supply Management Principles. Knowledge of
Good Pharmacy Practice. Meticulous and attention to detail. Good computer
skills. Ability to work as part of a team or independently.
DUTIES : Working under both direct and indirect supervision of a pharmacist. Manage
drug supply within the facilities, including but not limited to correct ordering of
stock, receiving and checking of stock, appropriate stock control and storage,
rotation of stock to prevent expiry, accurate handling of expired stock, and
appropriate temperature control. Dispensing and issuing of acute and chronic
scripts according to Standard Treatment Guidelines and the WCGHW
Pharmaceutical Code List. Issuing medication prepared by Tertiary Institutions
and CDU (Chronic Dispensing Unit) and the management thereof. Collection
of all pharmacy related data, ensuring accurate compilation of monthly
pharmaceutical statistics return and pricing of expired stock. Support to
supervisor and colleagues within the Knysna/Bitou Sub-District, within scope
of practice. Ensure the provision of high-quality services measured by
outcomes of quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Turner Tel No: (044) 302-8498
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for
similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/311 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (PLUMBING)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam- and Cape Agulhas Sub-district (Stationed at Swellendam
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate SAQA-recognized Trade Test
Certificate (Plumbing). Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade
B: At least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after
obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s license. Must be willing to work over a spectrum of trades and skills,
not limited to plumbing work. Must be prepared to work overtime and perform
standby duties after hours, including weekends and Public Holidays, and be
willing to travel and work at the facilities within the Swellendam and Cape
Agulhas Sub-districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be conversant with
the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Supervisory skills, strong
administrative skills. Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage the workshop and its functions, and perform repairs, maintenance and
installations for the different facilities (not limited to plumbing), and assist with
managing all emergencies as per the emergency maintenance protocol.
Compiling of minor specifications, attend site meetings and manage
outsourced contractors. Responsible for the necessary administrative
functions of the workshop, compiling reports, maintaining registers, and assist
with the control of the workshop budget. Exercise control over tools, equipment
and materials, and ordering of tools and materials. Management of the
performance and supervision of staff, implement the disciplinary code when
required and provide support to managers, supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Wege Tel No: (028) 514-8400
174
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/312 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRD (EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Training & Development & Labour
Relations environment preferred. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills and Computer skills (MS Office, Excel and Word).
Working knowledge of PERSAL. Knowledge of and application of applicable
human resource policies. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Implementation of HR policy/prescripts. Effective Administrative Support in
People Development by assisting with the development, implementation;
evaluation of a Workplace Skills Programme, maintaining data base of training
interventions and coordination of Induction Training. Effective Administrative
Support in Employee Relations w r t grievances; disciplinary cases and
maintenance of relevant databases. Monthly reporting on statistics in
Employee Relations and People Development. Rendering of an administrative
support function i. e secretariat service to the PD&T. Committee as well as the
Institutional Management and Labour Committee (IMLC), preparation of
distribution of agendas. Minutes, minute keeping and logistical arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Kandeni Tel No: (021) 834 5888
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Administration Clerk HRD posts
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/313 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital, Southern Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirement: Grade 12 / Senior Certificate with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject. Experience: Appropriate
administrative experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
and proficiency. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience
in electronic procurement systems, Logis and General Supply Chain
Management concepts. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Be able
to work accurately and under pressure.
DUTIES : Maintain and the update Asset Register. Procurement of assets and services
adjudicated and ensure all transactions comply with the legislative
requirements. Administrate asset movements, updates, barcoding and
scanning of all assets. Undertake interim financial and annual asset counts,
reporting of losses, theft, shortages, and surpluses. Execute disposals of all
assets pertaining to SCM policies & procedures. Provide general administrative
support to line managers including warehousing and payment functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JM Smith Tel No: (021) 816 8564, Email:
Jowene.Smith@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/314 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (TRANSPORT)
Directorate: Facilities Management (Tygerberg Laundry)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
175
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in line with the duties (key
result areas/outputs). Inherent Requirement: Valid (Code EB) driver’s licence,
with a valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to perform
overtime/standby duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Ability to collate,
verify/validate data, work accurately and methodically. Good interpersonal and
organizational skills. Computer skills (MS Word, Excel and Outlook)
DUTIES : Oversee comprehensive fleet and logistics operations by ensuring optimal
control of the transport section at Tygerberg Laundry. Managing fleet
maintenance, administration, and logistical effectively. Supervising staff
performance and all aspects pertaining to People Management. Guaranteeing
strict adherence to all safety regulations and administrative reporting
requirements within the transport sector. Performing driver duties as needed.
See to it that regular fleet inspections are conducted. Liaise with all
stakeholders regarding fleet issues. Assist with budget planning by optimizing
transport routes for linen collection from and to user departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Madikane Tel No: (021) 933-0834
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/315 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(WAREHOUSE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Kannaland Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate supply chain
management experience. Appropriate experience in LOGIS or Stock
Management System. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work at all Public Health Institutions
within the Oudtshoorn and Kannaland Sub-Districts. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate practical knowledge of warehouse functions in
LOGIS. Ability to function independently, plan own work activities and work in
a team environment. Ability to handle conflict and problem-solving situations.
Good communication skills (verbal and written) and organisational skills.
Computer literacy in Microsoft Package (MS Windows, Word and Excel).
Appropriate knowledge of SCM delegations.
DUTIES : Ensure the effective running of the store/warehouse. Receive and issue
inventory accurately within prescribed timeframes to end users. Ensure
accurate stock control i.e. verify stock levels, do spot checks, maintain min/max
levels, complete bin cards. Place orders timeously and ensure continuous
stock availability (zero stock outs). Record Management and proper filing and
updating electronic system. Proper resolution of queries and provide
assistance when needed. Assist with the preparation of inputs for the annual
financial statements (inventory). Assist with the advertisement of items on
Electronic Procurement System (EPS) which are not on contract. Requesting
of Buy-Out approval for certain items. Manage inventory effectively in terms of
the storage and safe keeping of items.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Flink Tel No: (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
176
POST 27/316 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Kannaland Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate supply chain
management experience. Appropriate experience in LOGIS. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to
travel and work at all Public Health Institutions within the Oudtshoorn and
Kannaland Sub-Districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to handle
conflict and problem-solving situations. Good communication skills (verbal and
written) and organisational skills. Computer literacy in Microsoft Package (MS
Windows, Word and Excel). Appropriate knowledge of the Accounting Officer
System, SCM delegations, PFMA, PTI and NTR. Appropriate knowledge of
Western Cape Supplier Database and Centralized Supplier Database. Ability
to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to function independently,
as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Appropriate knowledge of the
Electronic Procurement System (EPS) and LOGIS procurement system.
DUTIES : Receive, issue and distribute assets to end-users. Constant spot check with
BI-annual stocks and assist with input for the preparation for the Annual
Financial Statements. Management of assets, i.e. disposal process,
movements, stock taking and compliance. Perform administrative duties, audit
compliance and handling of enquiries written and telephonically. Adhere to and
implement Occupational and Health and Safety standards. Ensure that all
transactions comply with legislative requirements and SCM prescripts. Perform
procurement duties related to EPS process, evaluation and adjudication on
system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Flink Tel No: (028) 551 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/317 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Fees-related environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong sense
of confidentiality. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy. Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS (Clinicom,
AR Systems), Finance Instructions, PFMA and Treasury Instructions.
DUTIES : File, compile stats and perform relief duties. Liaise with patients, all categories
of staff and external bodies. Perform main cashier, general fees administration
and account related duties. Provide debt relief. Collect revenue on outstanding
hospital accounts. Fees revenue and follow-up administration functions
according to PWGC policies and procedures. Covering colleagues in areas.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Stewart Tel No: (021) 404 2217
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to attend a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/318 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
177
CENTRE : Uniondale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in patient administration / admissions at a
hospital and /or Community Health Centre environment. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work after hours (weekends, public holidays) and
overtime at short notice. Willingness to rotate between facilities in the Sub-
district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to accept accountability
and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge of electronic patient
administration systems Clinicom or PHCIS. Computer literacy in Microsoft
(Word, Excel and Outlook). High ethical standards as incumbent will have
access to confidential files.
DUTIES : Accurate patient assessments and patient admissions on Clinicom or PHCIS
system. Complete patient discharge documentation and system discharges.
Render an effective and efficient medical records service and folder
management. Ensure timeous and accurate collection and submission of
statistics. Monitoring and ordering of ward stock and inventory. Open and
maintain patient folders and loan patient folders to relevant departments on the
Clinicom or PHCIS system. Filling of patient folders, patient clinical notes and
laboratory results and other documents on a daily basis. Record keeping, trace
old folders, compile new folders and destruction of folders. Attend to patient
enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Lewis-Peters Tel No: (044) 814-1117
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/319 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (EMPLOYEE SOURCING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate or equivalent qualification.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
Ability to execute duties accurately and thoroughly. Knowledge of
Departmental Recruitment and Selection policy. Good interpersonal and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Capture adverts on the S-CUBED system. Render a recruitment and selection
process and perform verification and criminal record checks. Render an
establishment control function and confirm post details. Perform secretarial
duties before, during and after interviewing processes. Drafting of motivations,
letters of appointment and contracts. Apply knowledge of human resource
policies, procedures and directives with regard to the recruitment and selection
process. Maintain and update database and post/s tracking sheet. Handle
correspondence and enquiries. Effective support to supervisor, Community
Health Centre’s and Hospital/s.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RS Jonker Tel No: (021) 370-5013
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for these posts. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/320 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRD
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Government College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Ability to work
after hours when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literate
178
(MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to collate, analyse, verify, and report
data. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility. Good interpersonal
skills, and ability to maintain confidentiality. Excellent communication skills
(written and verbal). Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Provide office administration support to the WCG College of Emergency Care.
Render administrative support for student recruitment-related duties. Provide
administrative functional support to all components of the College.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Petersen Tel No: (021) 938-4115
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/321 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/FEES (REVENUE)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Fees/Revenue related environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Strong sense of confidentiality. Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Computer literacy. Knowledge of BAS & AR, HIS, Clinicom, PFMA, Finance
Instructions. Knowledge of procedures on how to handle state monies.
Knowledge journal capturing/petty cash processes & refunds procedures.
DUTIES : Capture receipts and journals on BAS. Credit patient accounts on AR. Keeping
state monies locked in the safe at all times. Issue petty cash and refund from
petty cash when required to do so. Cashier relief including proper hand over
when taking over from another cashier.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Qokoqa Tel No: (021) 404-2207
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/322 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing, Stikland
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate People Management experience. Appropriate
PERSAL and Recruitment and Selection experience. Inherent requirements of
the job: Prepared to work overtime when required. Candidate must have a valid
Driver’s License. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
decision making and problem-solving skills. Ability to work in a team as well as
independently. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, debt
management and verification of documents. Responsible for capturing
transactions on PERSAL and audit personnel- and leave records. Handle all
personnel enquiries and correspondence (written and verbal) and file
personnel data, policies, regulations and circulars. Maintain registers, i.e.
PILIR, RWOPS, appointment and service terminations. Recruitment and
selection.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DP Bending Tel No: (021) 831-5829.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as
part of the interview process. No payment of any kind is required when applying
for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
179
POST 27/323 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows you registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Staff Nurse. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with SANC as
a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years of appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime. Willingness to work
nightshift, shifts, weekends and public holidays Relieve and rotate in all areas.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Klaasen Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/324 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Murraysburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience and sound knowledge of hospital plant,
laundry equipment and machinery. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to do standby and work overtime and
after hours, including weekends and public holidays. Physical ability to perform
work at heights and in confined spaces. Willingness to travel and work at all
Public Health Institutions within the Central Karoo District. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively both verbal and written.
Ability to handle conflict and problem-solving situations. Be conversant with the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability
to plan own work activities, work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Carry out and assist the Artisan Foreman / Production Artisan with category 1
maintenance: e.g., basic/elementary maintenance, installations, inspections,
and repairs at Health Institutions to ensure compliance with the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations or acts. Ensure an organised and neat
workshop/office space. Attend to Job Requisitions and job cards. Assist with
Administration duties and functions. Adhere to Occupational Health and Safety
instructions. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Makwela Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
180
POST 27/325 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Graden Route District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate housekeeping experience
in a Health Environment. Appropriate administrative and supervisory
experience in a Health Sector. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s
license (Code B/EB). Willingness to work overtime, on weekends and on Public
Holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure,
perform physically demanding tasks and to handle heavy objects. Ability to
achieve and maintaining good interpersonal relations with staff. Appropriate
knowledge of infection control, linen and stock control. Good communicate
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Ensure that patients are served with an appropriate diet according to his/her
condition. Ensure a high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the
hospital environment to prevent the spread of infection and safety hazards.
Supervision of household aids. Stock, equipment and inventory control.
Responsible for all administrative duties associated with supervision. Attend in-
service training. Effective and efficient management of all linen and stock
information and ensure communication regarding operational aspects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/326 : PRINCIPAL PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) Grade 10/ STD 8. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience of
porter staff and mortuary administration within a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to
work night shifts, public holidays, weekends, overtime and be on standby. Able
to supervise staff on site and off site (EC HUB). Competencies
knowledge/skills): Must be of sober habits. Ability to work under pressure,
unsupervised, and in a team context. Ability to work independently and in a
team context. Innovative and problem-solving abilities. Strong leadership skills.
Basic experience and knowledge of Performance Management System.
Thorough knowledge of the Death Administration legislations and relevant
policies, the removal of corpses protocol, handling of folders protocol, etc.
Knowledge of Infection prevention & control. Knowledge of the grievance
procedure, code of good practice: dismissal and disciplinary code and
procedure for the public service. Computer Skills (MS Office, Excel, Word &
Outlook).
DUTIES : Supervise the utilisation of personnel to ensure patient is transported to
treatment centre timeously. Supervise, Organise and control duties of
personnel effectively in order to deliver an optimal porter service to our client.
Manage the physical resources and effectively apply relevant labour relation’s
principles. Effectively execute all administrative function applicable on the
supervisory level and provide. effective support to ASD: Support Services.
Ensure 24 Hour porter services. Ensure disciplined workforce and effective
SPMS standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Pedro Tel No: (021) 377 4327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payments of any kind
are required when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of
Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will
181
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualification, verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/327 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT (LINEN BANK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in linen bank in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Prepared to work weekends and public holidays. Ability
to work shifts and to work overtime when operationally required. The ability to
lift heavy objects and stand for long hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to sort and count linen and to sluice the linen. Ability to operate
equipment and machinery.
DUTIES : Provide effective, efficient, safe hygiene and cleaning practices. Provide a
supporting service to the supervisor. Daily collection of dirty linen from
departments for the linen bank and return of clean linen from the linen bank to
the wards/departments. Daily sorting, counting and sluice of dirty linen prior to
transfer of linen to laundry. Perform basic routine tasks in the linen bank under
supervision. Perform hard physical tasks, for example, pushing heavy linen
trolleys to and from the linen bank and wards/departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Du Toit Tel No: (021) 918-1230
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Linen Stores Assistant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/328 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Mtero Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Michell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic reading and writing skills.
Experience: Appropriate driving experience in transporting passengers and
goods. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be in possession of a valid Code
B/EB (Code 8) driver’s license. Must be in possession of a Valid PDP. Must be
of Sober habits. Responsible for vehicles and maintenance. Must be willing to
work irregular hours and overtime. Must be willing to be on standby.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of transport regulations.
Knowledge of fleet maintenance. Must be able to work independently.
DUTIES : Effectively rendering an efficient transport service by scheduling and transport
routes to ensure responsible driving. Effective control of Loading and
transporting of goods and staff compliment. Effectively maintaining GG
Vehicles stationed at Hospital eg. Timely reporting of minor and major defects.
Effectively examining vehicles before undertaking trips eg. Inspection of
vehicles. Responsible for the prescribed records and logs with regards to the
vehicles and goods handled. Assist the Transport Officer to maintain the
transport fleet in a clean and roadworthy condition. Prepare reports for the
supervisor if and when needed. Compliance with the Occupational Health and
Safety Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Pedro Tel No: (021) 377-4327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payments of any kind
are required when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of
Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualification, verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
182
POST 27/329 : HOUSEHOLD AID (THEATRE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
household/cleaning experience in a health facility environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work weekends, overtime, public
holidays and night duty. Willingness to relief in other departments when
necessary. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of the
correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/waste products and
adherence to policy and cleaning practices. Good communication skills.
Appropriate knowledge of stock, assets, linen and equipment control. The
ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household
equipment.
DUTIES : Deliver an effective cleaning service such as dusting, washing, scrubbing,
polishing, washing and refuse removal. Adhere to safety measures and ensure
adherence to Occupational Health and Safety policies and Infection Prevention
Control measures. Render assistance to the supervisor with general
housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and household equipment,
care and control of linen and serving of meals to patients. Support to
housekeeping supervisor and adhere to policies and cleaning practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CG Wagener Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
POST 27/330 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONS) (20 SESSIONS PER WEEK)
Garden Route District
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R409 per hour
Grade 2: R442 per hour
Grade 3: R482 per hour
CENTRE : Knysna CDC, Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification accredited with the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a
pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience after registration as a
pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6-years
relevant experience after registration as pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years appropriate experience after registration as a
pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14-years
relevant experience after registration as pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Ability to
work with and within a diverse multi-disciplinary team. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health
Policies and Pharmaceutical acts and laws. Ability to work accurately under
pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Sound Management
and conflict handling skills. Computer literacy including Pharmacy Dispensing
and Stock Systems, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint (To
be specified in application/CV). Good communication skills (written and verbal).
183
DUTIES : Maintaining a value driven culture in line with national and provincial treatment
guidelines and the Western Cape Code List of approved medicines. Effective
monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure, implementation, and evaluation of
budgetary control measures. Ensure accessibility to medication and
pharmaceutical care for patients. Maintain and improve the quality of patient
care as a member of the multi-disciplinary team within the primary health care
setting, which includes but is not limited to Antimicrobial Stewardship and
rational medicine use prescription reviews. Effective Dispensing,
compounding, and mixing of pharmaceuticals in line with statutory
requirements. Ordering and maintaining stock levels. Assist supervisor with
placing of orders from depot and ensuring stock levels is maintained. Ensure
sufficient stock without overstocking to prevent the expiration of medicine.
Record keeping for statistical feedback. Ensure that all operations adhere to
pharmacy act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GA Turner Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be requested to perform a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with relevant council (including individuals who must apply
for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for
similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from
date of advert. Possible extension of current contract.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/331 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION LEVEL): HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI 06/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 - R816 852 per annum
Grade B: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum
Grade C: R976 029 - R1 144 008 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per the
OSD prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification; A
minimum of 3 years post qualification Quantity Surveying experience;
Compulsory registration with the South African Council of Quantity Survey
Professionals (SACQSP) as a Professional Quantity Surveyor; A valid code B
driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Programme and
project management; Quantity Survey principles and methodologies; Research
and development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal
184
compliance; Technical report writing, technical consulting; creating high
performance culture; Networking; Professional judgement. Skills in the
following: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical; Creativity; Self-
management; Financial management; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on buildings, structures or facilities; Co-
ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity surveying;
Ensure adherence to quantity determination standards; Provide quantity
surveying advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs; Ensure the
adoption of technical and quality strategies; Develop quantity surveying related
policies, methods and practices; Provide solutions on non-compliance on
quantity determination; Review the cost determinations of projects and
estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-professional
personnel; Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration;
Human capital development; Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity
surveyors and related technical and administrative personnel to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound quantity surveying principles
and code of practice; Supervise quantity surveying work and processes;
Administer performance management and development; Office administration
and budget planning; Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for
the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedure for procurement, SCM and personnel human resource
administration; Monitor and control expenditure; Report on expenditure and
service delivery; Research and development; Continuous professional
development according to council guidelines; Research/literature studies on
quantity survey to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
quantity survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E du Plooy at email: Etienne.duPlooy@westerncape.gov.za
POST 27/332 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION LEVEL): EDUCATION
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI 56/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 - R816 852 per annum
Grade B: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum
Grade C: R976 029 - R1 144 008 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per the
OSD prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification; A
minimum of 3 years post qualification Quantity Surveying experience;
Compulsory registration with the South African Council of Quantity Survey
Professionals (SACQSP) as a Professional Quantity Surveyor; A valid code B
(or higher) driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Technical: Programme and project management; Quantity Survey principles
and methodologies; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Legal compliance; Technical report writing, technical consulting;
creating high performance culture; Networking; Professional judgement.
Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical; Creativity; Self-
management; Financial management; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on buildings, structures or facilities; Co-
ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity surveying;
Ensure adherence to quantity determination standards; Provide quantity
surveying advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs; Ensure the
adoption of technical and quality strategies; Develop quantity surveying related
policies, methods and practices; Provide solutions on non-compliance on
quantity determination; Review the cost determinations of projects and
estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-professional
personnel; Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration;
Human capital development; Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity
surveyors and related technical and administrative personnel to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound quantity surveying principles
and code of practice; Supervise quantity surveying work and processes;
185
Administer performance management and development; Office administration
and budget planning; Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for
the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedure for procurement, SCM and personnel human resource
administration; Monitor and control expenditure; Report on expenditure and
service delivery; Research and development; Continuous professional
development according to council guidelines; Research/literature studies on
quantity survey to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
quantity survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Potgieter Tel No: (021) 483 4881
POST 27/333 : MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
ENGINEERING SERVICES (HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE), REF NO: DOI
21/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 - Grade C: R586 665 per annum, (Salary will be determined
based on post registration experience as per OSD prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Engineering Mechanical or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (Engineering) experience; A valid code B driving
licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project
Management knowledge and experience: Technical design and analysis
knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering;
AutoCAD drawing; Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report writing;
Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving and analysis; Decision making;
Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication;
Computer skills; People Management; Planning and Organising; Change
Management; Good analytical, interpersonal and organisational skills; Good
verbal and written communication skills; Computer literacy (MS Project, Word,
Excel, and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Render technical services; Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshop, and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and review
and or produce technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation
and approval by the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related
functions; Provide input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and
submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets; Research and development; Continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise and liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E du Plooy at Etienne.duPlooy@westerncape.gov.za
POST 27/334 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS (REGION 2) REF NO: DOI 107/2024 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng)) or relevant qualification; A minimum
of 3 years post-qualification engineering experience required; Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B driving
licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the following: Road
infrastructure maintenance and construction; Engineering design and analysis
knowledge; Proven computer literacy (MS Office) as well as computer aided
engineering applications; Programme and Project Management; Contract
administration; Tender conditions and evaluation; Conditions of contract (GCC
2015); Standard Specifications (Colto); Compilation of contract documentation;
Contract law and Contract adjudication; Willingness to travel away from
186
headquarters on a regular basis. Skills needed: Technical report writing, Sound
engineering and professional judgement; Problem solving and analysis;
Decision making, Teamwork, Creativity; Communication (written and verbal)
and People Management.
DUTIES : Provide technical input into tender and contract documentation and ensure
through evaluation that specifications are based on sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice; Develop
cost effective construction solutions according to standards; Evaluate existing
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures; Input into the
development of tender specifications; Approval of engineering works according
to prescribed norms and standards; Ensure training and development of
candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound engineering principles and code of practice; Administer performance
management and development; Manage resources; Ensure adherence to
regulations and procedures for procurement and contract administration;
Monitor, control and report on expenditure and service delivery; Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Liaise with other Directorates, regional offices and local authorities regarding
contracts; Human capital development including training of technical staff;
Office administration and budget planning; Provide inputs for standardisation
of plans and project procedure manual; Monitor, control and report on
expenditure and service delivery; Input towards improvement of standard
documentation and administrative procedures; Provide assistance to
contractors and consultants to ensure adherence to regulations, procedures
and standards; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering matters;
Keep abreast of new technological changes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Buys Tel No: (021) 483 6413
POST 27/335 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ASSURANCE SERVICES (INSPECTORATE) REF
NO: DOI 101/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 1-year relevant experience. A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have
reasonable access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Extensive
knowledge of the following: National, Provincial and Departmental policies,
prescripts and practices; Programme/project management, research and
planning procedures; Public Service reporting procedures; Financial
Management; Line functions and Departmental structure. Skills in the following:
Computer Literacy; Strong conceptual and formulation; Excellent
communication; Strategic thinking; Conflict resolution; Analytical thinking;
Team-building and strong inter-personal; Conceptual and formulation; Problem
solving; Report writing and presentation.
DUTIES : Compile/provide input to assurance services standard operating procedure
and operational plan; Perform further investigations on provincial forensic
services referrals and/or special requests for investigations; Post auditing of
expenditure vouchers/claims and financial inspections; Perform inspections at
municipalities; Maintain internal control processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G Hartley Tel No: (021) 483 0498
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
187
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 27/336 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: POLICY AND
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: DSD 86/2024 R1
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years experience in a supply chain management
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy Development;
Financial norms and standards (Public Finance Management Act – PFMA,
National Treasury regulations – NTR’s, Provincial Treasury
Directives/Instructions – PTI’s); Budgeting processes; National and Provincial
instruments and legislation pertaining to human resources; Financial norms
and standards (Public Finance Management Act – PFMA, National Treasury
regulations – NTR’s, Provincial Treasury Directives/Instructions – PTI’s);
Financial management processes; Strategic Sourcing and Preferential
Procurement / BEE; Procurement activities; Industry trends and best practices
per commodity groups; Procurement best practices including sourcing
strategies and the different mechanisms for procurement; Procurement
policies/procedures/contract management; Records management, inclusive of
registry services, and policy and procedures governing these functions;
General support service such as transport management and policy and
procedures governing these functions. Skills needed: Analytical and strategic
thinking; Budgeting; Written and verbal communication; Numeracy; Computer
literacy; Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation and reporting; Presentation;
Problem solving; Research. Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement
policy.
DUTIES : Develop and review departmental policies; Build capacity among internal and
external stakeholders; Develop, implement and maintain control framework for
supply chain; Develop standard operating procedures; Review and align
delegations; Identify needs for policies, guidelines, norms and standards in
respect of all SCM practices and provide advice in the development thereof;
Give inputs in the development of provincial policy positions; Conduct policy
evaluation; Develop and implement strategies to communicate SCM policy
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Jansche van Rensburg Tel No: (021) 483 4283
188