PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 37 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 10 OCTOBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES: Kindly take note that the
department has withdrawn the following advertised posts, as it appears in Circular 35 of
the PSVC dated 26 September 2025, with a closing date of 14 October 2025. The details
are as follows: Deputy Director: Performance Monitoring and Reporting: Ref HO
2025/09/14; Deputy Director: Correctional Centres (NCB4): Ref HO 2025/09/96;
Assistant Manager Nursing: Communicable Diseases: Ref HO 2025/09/22;
Administration Officer: Course Administration: Ref HO 2025/09/77; Deputy Director:
Programme Targeting Behaviour: Ref HO 2025/09/97; ASD: Monitoring and Intervention:
Ref HO 2025/09/98; Senior Administration Officer: Functional Training: Ref HO
2025/09/52; Senior Correctional Policy Administrator: Pre- Release Preparation (NCB 2):
Ref: HO 2025/09/104; Assistant Manager: Nursing: Maternal / Child and Youth Health:
Ref: HO 2025/09/29; Deputy Director: Academic Support Ref: HO 2025/09/06;
Administration Officer: Logistics and Stores: Ref: HO 2025/09/80; Deputy Director:
Security Evaluation (NCB4): Ref: HO 2025/09/92; Deputy Director: Case Management
(NCB4): Ref: HO 2025/09/95; Assistant Director: Monitoring Services (NCB3): Ref: HO
2025/09/101;
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES. Kindly amend
the center of the following post: Registry Clerk (REF NO: 047) to North West- Region:
Rustenburg, as advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular No 36 with the closing
date of 17 October 2025.
THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: kindly note that
the post of Director: Finance, Ref No: 2025/123, in the Department of Public Works and
Infrastructure as advertised on 03 October 2025 with the closing date of 17 October 2025
was erroneously advertised with incorrect Centre: Head Office, the correct Centre is
Durban Regional Office.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CIVILIAN SECRETARIATE FOR POLICE A 04
DEFENCE B 05 - 07
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND ENVIRONMENT C 08 - 24
HIGHER EDUCATION D 25 - 27
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT E 28
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT F 29 - 30
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY G 31 - 42
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION H 43 - 44
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT I 45 - 46
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT J 47 - 50
TOURISM K 51 - 53
TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION L 54 - 57
TREASURY M 58 – 59
WATER AND SANITATION N 60 - 61
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE O 62 – 79
GAUTENG P 80 – 81
KWAZULU-NATAL Q 82 – 83
LIMPOPO R 84 – 108
MPUMALANGA S 109 – 117
NORTHERN CAPE T 118 – 133
NORTHWEST U 134 – 148
WESTERN CAPE V 149 - 172
3
ANNEXURE A
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service calls on all independent suitably qualified and experienced
professional to serve as member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
APPLICATIONS : A comprehensive Curriculum Vitae should be forwarded to Private Bag X922
Pretoria 0001 or hand delivered or couriered to 258 Lilian Ngoyi Street,
Pretorius Street, Fedsure Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk.
Applications can also be emailed to: Recruitment42@csp.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025, NB: Please ensure that your application reaches this office
before 17h00 on week-days.
NOTE : Preference will be given to applicants who are citizens of the Republic of South
Africa and residents within the Gauteng Province.
OTHER POST
POST 37/01 : AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEMBER REF NO: CSP/13/2025 (1 POST)
SALARY : Audit and Risk Committee members shall be appointed as independent
contractors and not as employees of the Civilian Secretariat for Police Service.
Appointment will be for a three-year term and remuneration shall be in
accordance with National Treasury Regulations 3.1.6, read with 20.2.3.
Members will be remunerated for preparations and attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a graduate qualification in the field of either
Law, Accounting, Finance, Internal Auditing, or Risk Management. Applicants
must have a sound experience in Internal and External Auditing, Governance
and Risk Management, Strategy Development, implementation and
Monitoring, and Legal. A proven record of service or membership of the
following Committees: Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Ethics
Committee and/or any Governance Body. Attributes and skills: Independence,
integrity, objectivity, reliability, sound knowledge of Public Sector environment,
knowledge of governance and risk management principles and control
processes. Good communication skills, strong leadership skills, knowledge of
Public Administration Industry. Independence from all operations of the Civilian
Secretariat for Police Service. Preference will be given to applicants in
possession of a graduate qualification in the field of Law, CA (SA), CIA and
MBA. Drivers License. Applicants should not be serving in no more than three
(3) Committees. Preference will be given to Female candidates and/or
previously disadvantaged persons.
DUTIES : The Committee regulates and discharges its responsibilities in accordance with
the provisions of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations and the approved Audit &
Risk Committee Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BK Shiphamele Tel: 012 4931 386
APPLICATIONS : Applications can also be emailed to: Recruitment42@csp.gov.za
4
ANNUXERE B
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 16:00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (INTERNAL SUPPORT): REF NO: DPSP/25/33/25
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a recognised Bachelor’s Degree/
Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) in Public Administration/Management or
relevant qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at supervisory
level. Special requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts. Departmental policies and
procedures. Batho Pele principles. Minimum Information Security Standards.
PFMA, Treasury regulations, Employment Service Act, Skills development.
General Management, Project Management, Financial Management and must
have intermediate Knowledge in Planning. Competencies/skills:
Communication skills (Verbal and written communication), Leadership,
Problem-solving and decision making. Conflict Management, Facilitation,
Analytical, Innovative, Sound organising and planning skills, Advance
Computer Skills (applications such as MS Word. Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook. Personal attributes: Ability to work individually and in a team, Ability
to collaborate effectively and communicate with stakeholders at various levels,
ability to work under pressure, Proactive approach to meeting deadlines and
delivering results with limited supervision, Good interpersonal relations, service
oriented and Integrity, creative and Innovative, Professionalism, reliability.
Flexibility. Teamwork and ethical.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to provide a professional corporate
administrative support services within the establishment of Defence Policy,
5
Strategy and Planning Division and perform the following key functions:
Manage processes for the development of divisional planning. Provide advice
on the compliance with human resource prescripts. Provide recruitment,
Performance Management Development System (PMDS) and Employee
Health and Wellness (EHW) support. Provide financial support in conjunction
with prescripts custodian. Provide records and resource management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z. Slabbert or Mr N.C. Sendall Tel: (012) 335 5634/5210
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Private Bag X161 Pretoria, 0001, may hand delivered to, Department of
Defence, Armscor Building, cnr of Nossob- and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof,
Pretoria, 0001 or email to Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za
POST 37/03 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: POLICY & GENERAL LEGAL
SUPPORT REF NO: DLSD/29/37/25/01
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum) (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupational Specific Dispensation Determination. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate for determination of
their experience.
CENTRE : Directorate Legal Services Division, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and an LLB Degree. (MR3 - LLB Degree plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4 - LLB Degree plus a
minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal profession. MR5 -
LLB Degree plus a minimum of 14 years post qualification experience in legal
profession). Admission as an Attorney or Advocate is recommended. Special
requirements (skills needed) Knowledge of the Constitution, Defence Act,
Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure, Law of Evidence and Administrative Law is
required. Skills on Interpretation of Statutes and knowledge of litigation and
litigation processes is required. In addition, general knowledge of law,
negotiation skills, presentation skills, management skills, good communication
skills (written and verbal), computer literacy, research skills and ability to
conduct legal research using legal research programs.
DUTIES : Provide legal advice and support regarding the formulation of Departmental
policies, to ensure the alignment of DoD policies with national legislation and/or
with other prescripts. Facilitate the resolution of legal disputes regarding the
interpretation or implementation of DoD policies. Provide sound legal
advice/opinion on policy issues. Provide legal support with regard to
formulation of policies, DODIs, DODDs and JDPs. Ensure alignment of DoD
policies with national legislation and other prescripts. Facilitate resolution of
legal disputes with regard to the interpretation or implementation of contracts.
Assist with the facilitation of the PAIA, as well as POPIA process within the
DoD. Facilitate and manage litigation. This includes civil claims instituted
against, or by the DoD. This inter alia includes the handling of letters of
demand, summonses and notices of motion. Liaise with the State Attorney on
the proposed handling and management of DoD litigation matters, including
drafting of instructions to the State Attorney. Liaise with internal DoD
stakeholders on litigation matters. Attend consultations with the State Attorney
and/or Counsel. Draft submissions in the management of litigation, this
includes drafting submissions to the Head of Department. Ensure sound
litigation administration including the compiling of monthly litigation
reports/statistics. Facilitate requests for legal representation by the State from
DoD officials.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel: (012) 355 5383 and Lt Col A. Everitt, Tel: (012) 355 5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria,0001 or may be hand delivered at Armscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria 0001 or emailed to
Mafemo.Majutla@dod.mil.za
POST 37/04 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE LEGAL
SUPPORT REF NO: DLSD/29/37/25/02
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupational Specific Dispensation Determination. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate for determination of
their experience.
CENTRE : Directorate Legal Services Division, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.
6
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and an LLB Degree. (MR3 - LLB Degree plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4 -LLB Degree plus a
minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal profession. MR5 -
LLB Degree plus a minimum of 14 years post qualification experience in legal
profession). Admission as an Attorney or Advocate is recommended. Special
requirements (skills needed): Extensive labour law background.
Labour/Industrial relations background. MLP or other relevant experience for
at least 3 years. Experience of handling of labour disputes and litigation.
Background if industrial relations. Public service and military. Knowledge of
Legal writing and drafting. The ability to conduct legal research using legal
research programs. Computer literacy-, Research, analytical, presentation,
problem solving, negotiation, people management, research, interpersonal
relation, and Communication skills (verbal and written). Strategic thinking
ability.
DUTIES : Provide specialist HR Legal advice. Represent and or facilitate representation
of the Department in PSCBC, GPSSBC, CCMA, MBC and MBA matters.
Instruct, liaise and assist the Office of the State Attorney in labour litigation
where the DOD is involved. To develop and maintain an effective and efficient
system of liaising with relevant internal and external role players to ensure
effective HR Legal advice. Draft, review and provide written legal advice on
DOD related MOUs and other international legal documents, which entails
conducting written legal opinions on the legality of MOU, provide negotiation
support to DOD when required. Facilitate and manage litigation. This includes
civil claims instituted against, or by the DoD. This inter alia includes the
handling of letters of demand, summonses and notices of motion. Liaise with
the State Attorney on the proposed handling and management of DoD litigation
matters, including drafting of instructions to the State Attorney. Liaise with
internal DoD stakeholders on litigation matters. Attend consultations with the
State Attorney and/or Counsel. Draft submissions in the management of
litigation, this includes drafting submissions to the Head of Department. Ensure
sound litigation administration including the compiling of monthly litigation
reports/statistics. Facilitate requests for legal representation by the State from
DoD officials.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel: (012) 355 5383 and Lt Col A. Everitt, Tel: (012) 355 5334
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria,0001 or may be hand delivered at Armscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria 0001 or emailed to
Mafemo.Majutla@dod.mil.za
7
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: May be forwarded to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria, marked for the
attention: Human Resources Management.
Cape Town, Northern Cape, Western Cape Eastern Cape, Free State,
Mpumalanga and Limpopo: Must be submitted to the Director-General,
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
KZN: Must be hand-delivered to 185 Langalibalele Street, Old Mutual Building,
Pietermaritzburg,3200
CLOSING DATE : 03 November 2025
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department, accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only,
to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Creditworthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise of all
SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed
will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement
and employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
8
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/05 : DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT SERVICES (REF NO: CFO13/2025)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management or Logistic
Management or relevant qualification on (NQF 7) within the related field as
recognized by SAQA. A postgraduate academic qualification (NQF8 and
above) in Supply Chain Management will be an added advantage. A minimum
of five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level within Supply
Chain Management - Demand and Acquisition Management. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG) upon appointment. In-depth
knowledge of public sector procurement processes, including the supply chain
legislative framework (PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, PPR, etc.) Strong
expertise in Demand Management, Strategic Sourcing methodologies,
Sourcing Strategy Development, Specification/Terms of Reference
Development. Proven ability to establish and manage demand management
systems and internal controls. Knowledge of strategic planning and budgeting.
Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies and legislation. Ability
to control and manage the demand management function of the department.
Ability to compile management reports on supply chain management
performance. Knowledge of Public Service financial legislative frameworks.
Strategic Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management; People Management and Empowerment; Knowledge
Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis;
Research skills; Sound organising skills; Stakeholder engagement. Excellent
communication skills (written and Verbal); analytical, innovative, problem
solving, and interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure and long hours.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of demand management framework and
strategies. Manage and consolidate the procurement requirements from
Branches in line with the strategic plan of the department timeously. Manage a
consolidated Procurement Plan for goods and services with critical delivery
dates and the approval thereof on time and submission to National Treasury.
Monitor and report on progress against the procurement plan. Manage the
implementation of Central Supplier Database. Update and implement Central
Supplier Database (CSD) in line with client/user requirements. Ensure
compliant database with BEE targets and code of good. Facilitation of Bid
Specification Committee meetings. Ensure that the specifications/terms of
reference are in an unbiased manner to allow all potential bidders to offer their
goods or services without favour or prejudice. Review and manage policies,
instruction notes and supply chain performance. Monitor, analyse and
implement SCM policies and National Treasury instruction notes. Review and
implement sourcing strategy. Conduct supplier workshop and share the
business opportunities available in the department (procurement plan) with
potential service providers throughout the country. Oversee the audit findings
and provide responses timeously. Ensure Sound corporate governance and
improved compliance with SCM reporting requirements (Internal and external
reporting). Ensure continuous improvements and controls
ENQUERIES : Mr M Makhathini, Tel: (012) 399 9515
APPLICATIONS : CFO13-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/06 : DIRECTOR: FORESTRY ADVISORY SERVICE (REF: FOM01/2025)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (all-inclusive annual salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Forestry or Natural Sciences or relevant
qualification on (NQF 7) within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG), upon appointment. Extensive
knowledge of National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA) and
National Environmental management Act, 107 of 1998 and policies impacting
on the forestry sector. Knowledge of extension and advisory services.
Knowledge of capacity building and skills development and programme
implementation. Knowledge of government administrative procedures (PFMA
9
and treasury regulations). Planning, Monitoring & Reporting. Skills: Leadership
and management, Strategic thinking, Analytical thinking, Conceptual, Problem
solving, Process design, Expert level of computer literacy. Communication,
especially in writing. Competencies: Strategic Planning. Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management. Problem Solving and Analysis. People Management and
Empowerment. Excellent Communication.
DUTIES : Ensure coordination and facilitation of sector capacity building programmes.
Ensure the development and implementation of the forestry capacity building
strategy. Ensure that a skills audit is conducted in the areas identified by the
Forestry Sector Masterplan. Promote partnerships with institutions involved in
capacity building, Promotion of partnerships with institutions involved in
Capacity Building, Ensure the Forestry workplace Skills Plan is developed
annually. Ensure collaboration with forestry institutions of higher learning and
the FP&M SETA to address skills issues for students and unemployed youth.
Provide strategic leadership in the coordination and implementation of
extension services. Ensure the development of norms and standards for
extension services. Promote support of forestry SMMEs through extension
approaches and techniques. Promote partnerships and support to extension
agents in the sector. Ensure the establishment and maintenance of effective
linkages and partnerships with relevant stakeholders for the support of forestry
extension and advisory services in the sector.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tebogo Mathiane (012 309 5701)
APPLICATIONS : FOM01-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/07 : DIRECTOR: STATE FOREST MANAGEMENT (REF: FOM07/2025)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (all-inclusive annual salary package)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Forestry or Natural Sciences or equivalent
qualification on (NQF7) within the related field as recognized by SAQA.A
minimum Five (5) years of experience in the relevant field at a Middle /Senior
managerial level. Successful Completion of the Public service Senior
Management Leadership Programme. Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG), upon appointment. Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public Service including
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and treasury regulations, the Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act etc. Knowledge of the Commercial Forestry
Sector. Knowledge and understanding of National Priorities e.g. Accelerated
and shared growth Initiative South Africa. Understanding of the Forest Sector
broad-based black economic empowerment. Knowledge of relevant policies,
legislations and frameworks relating to Forestry e.g. National Forest Act,
National Veld and Forest Fire Act, National Industrial Policy Framework (NIPF).
Knowledge of Enumeration of biological assets for collection of data. Financial
Management. Project Management and strategic planning. Stakeholder
Engagement. Sound research, organizing and analytical skills. Good
Presentation skills Ability to negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve
conflict. Good interpersonal relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid
Driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage the plantations and implement the annual plan of operations for the
plantations. Manage State Forests, personnel and associated assets. Develop
and implement Fire Management Plans, Ensure the implementation of
Sustainable Forest Management in line with the National Forest Act and
National Veld and Forest Fire Act. Proactive mitigation of audit risks, develop
and implement interventions. Stakeholder Liaison and Providing post
settlement support and management of state forest Land and State Forest
Land transfer.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Leseke, Cell No: 072 199 1291
APPLICATIONS : FOM07/2025@dffe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/08 : PROJECT MANAGER: GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY-PILLAR 2 REF
NO: BC13/2025
(Two Year Contract)
10
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Project management /Environmental Science or
relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in project management or relevant field
of which (3) should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director
Level or equivalent). Knowledge and experience with Global Environment
Facility policies and procedures including log frames and similar project
planning tools. Experience and knowledge in project/programme management
and implementation. Experience in managing large multidisciplinary projects.
Knowledge in Biodiversity Management; Experience in the monitoring and
evaluation of internationally funded projects. Report writing experience.
Knowledge in Financial and Procurement administrative procedures.
Leadership and Management; Organisational and planning skills. Innovation
and proactiveness; Ability to gather and analyse information. Good
interpersonal relations skills; Conflict management and resolution. Ability to
work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership to the project team and oversee project
implementation. Act as the national representative of the project at regional and
international levels. Consult with different high-level project partners from
relevant institutions to ensure scheduled project activities are completed
successfully. Oversee public relations for the project. Coordinate effective
communication amongst stakeholders at landscape, national and international
level. Ensure high-level stakeholder engagement as well as political and
community buy-in. Maintain good communication with other relevant projects
and foster synergies and alignment with those projects. Serve as Secretary for
the Technical Working Committee and Project Steering Committee in
coordinating project implementation. Monitor implementation progress as well
as financial and budgetary status of the project components in accordance with
the annual workplan. Ensure that World Bank/GEF norms for monitoring and
evaluation of project performance, output delivery and impact are applied.
Manage the project budget. Facilitate the approval and endorsement of
financial and procurement documentation of the national components of the
project
ENQUIRY : Mr S Malete, Tel: (012) 399 9511
APPLICATIONS : BC13-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/09 : PROJECT MANAGER: GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 7- HUMAN
WILDLIFE CONFLICT REF NO: BC17/2025
Re-Advert
(Three Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum(all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Project management /Environmental Science or
relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in project management or relevant field
of which (3) should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director
Level or equivalent). Knowledge and experience with GEF policies and
procedures including log frames and similar project planning tools. Experience
and knowledge in project/programme management and implementation.
Experience in managing large multidisciplinary projects. Knowledge in
Biodiversity Management; Experience in the monitoring and evaluation of
internationally funded projects. Report writing experience. Knowledge in
Financial and Procurement administrative procedures. Leadership and
Management; Organisational and planning skills. Innovation and
proactiveness; Ability to gather and analyse information. Good interpersonal
relations skills; Conflict management and resolution. Ability to work
independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership to the project team. Act as the national
representative of the project at regional and international levels. Consult with
different high-level project partners from relevant institutions to ensure
scheduled project activities are completed successfully. Oversee public
relations for the project. Coordinate effective communication amongst
stakeholders at landscape, national and international level. Ensure high-level
stakeholder and policy buy-in. Monitoring inputs of partners, ensuring that
project obligations are fulfilled in a timely and coordinated fashion. Manage
11
Project Implementation Task Team and participate in Steering Committee
meetings. Serve as Executive Secretary and provide support to the PSC in
coordinating project implementation. Monitor progress of the project. Monitor
the financial and budgetary status of the national components of the project.
Ensure that UNEP/GEF norms for monitoring and evaluation of project
performance, output delivery and impact are applied. Participate in the UNEP
semi-annual field supervision missions.
ENQUIRY : Mr S Malete, Tel (012) 399 9511
APPLICATIONS : BC17-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/10 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GREENING & LIVELIHOODS IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105 annum per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
CENTRE : Bhisho, Eastern Cape (REF: FOM08/2025)
Polokwane, Limpopo (REF: FOM09/2025)
Bloemfontein, Free State (REF: FOM10/2025)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQ6) in Forestry or Developmental Studies or equivalent
qualification within the related field. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
Forestry or related field, of which three (3) years should be at an entry/junior
managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Knowledge and
understanding of the National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA) and
the National Veld and Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No 101 of 1998) (NVFFA).
Knowledge of the function of different departments and levels of government.
Government business practices and policies. Departmental service delivery.
Reporting systems and processes. Project Management and strategic
planning. Stakeholder Engagement. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Financial Management. People Management and Empowerment. Ability to
work under pressure and handle criticism. Ability to gather and analyse
information. Ability to negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflict.
Good interpersonal relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid Driver’s
license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage the socio-economic development of the Forestry sector with reference
to the livelihood programmes. Promote livelihoods and greening programmes
locally, provincially and nationally through stakeholder liaison. Implement
National Forestry Development Awareness Programmes and Campaigns.
Ensure the implementation of forestry livelihood development and agroforestry.
Manage and implement forestry greening and livelihood programmes and
projects. Implement greening initiatives (Ten Million Trees) programmes.
Provide technical advice and guidance on Forestry Development issues.
Ensure the promotion of partnerships between Government, Non-Government
Organisation (NGO’s) and private individuals and communities. Ensure the
integration of Forestry Development into Local, Provincial and National
Government Developments. Ensure the inclusion of Forestry Development on
Provincial Growth and Development Strategies (PDGS), Spatial Development
Frameworks (SDF) and Integrated Development Plans (IDP), Provide support
in the coordination of forestry greening campaigns. Provide support for the
Arbor Month and Arbor City Awards Programme. Sustainable Management of
state nursery. Develop and implement the Annual Plan of Operations. Revenue
collection. Manage the resources of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Matsea, Cell No: 066 390 7000
APPLICATIONS : FOM08-2025@dffe.gov.za
FOM09-2025@dffe.gov.za
FOM10-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/11 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOREST RESOURCE PROTECTION (X2 POST)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Bhisho, Eastern Cape (FOM11/2025)
Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal (FOM12/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQ6) in Forestry or Natural Resources or equivalent
qualification within the related field. A minimum of five (5) years of experience
in Forestry or related field, of which three (3) years should be at the entry
managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Sound understanding
of the National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) and National Veld and
Forest Fires Act, 1998 (Act No 101 of 1998). Knowledge of the Forestry and
environmental management sector. Understanding of the Public Finance
12
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of policy
development and analysis. Excellent Communication (verbal, presentation and
report writing). Ability to work independently and efficiently under pressure. A
valid driver’s license and willing to travel.
DUTIES : Implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policy instruments. Ensure
effective implementation of policies, legislation, strategies, action plans,
guidelines, norms and standards for forestry legislation (NFA and NVFFA).
Enumeration for collection of data. Ensure compliance and enforcement of the
NA while advocating co-operative governance. Provide support to the Fire
Protection Association in terms of the NVFFA provisions. Implement capacity
building and training on forestry legislation. Conduct training and awareness to
various stakeholders including SAPS, Prosecutors, Magistrates, FPAs on the
provisions of the forestry legislation (NFA and NVFFA). Ensure Integrated Fire
Management through collaboration of all stakeholders, Ensure establishment,
compliance, and functionality of Fire Protection Associations
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Ndou, Tel: 066 019 1221
APPLICATIONS : FOM11-2025@dffe.gov.za
FOM12-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/12 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STATE FOREST MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
CENTRE : Nelspruit, Mpumalanga: (REF: FOM13/2025)
Makhado, Limpopo: (REF: FOM14/2025)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQ6) in Forestry or Developmental Studies or relevant
qualification within the related field. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
Commercial Forestry or related field, of which three (3) years should be at an
entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent).
Knowledge and understanding of the National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of
1998) (NFA) and the National Veld and Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No 101 of
1998) (NVFFA), including other relevant Acts such as NEMA, NEMBA, and
Protected Areas. Knowledge and management of Plantation Forestry and
Environmental Management Sector. Knowledge and experience in
Enumeration and management of biological assets for collection of data.
Financial Management. Project Management and strategic planning.
Stakeholder Engagement. Ability to work under pressure and handle criticism.
Ability to negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflict. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid Driver’s
license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Managing and coordinate the implementation, maintenance, and improvement
of the Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) business processes. Develop
and implement Annual Plan of Operational APOs) that will facilitate the
rehabilitation and restoration of timber within the forest plantations in the
province. Ensure business processes for Sustainable Forest Management
(SFM) are developed, implemented, reviewed, and disseminated to all forest
managers within the plantations. Ensure development, review, and
implementation of forest growth and yield model for commercial forest
plantations. Maintain an inventory for biological asset register through stock
enumeration, develop plan to ensure physical verification is conducted for all
state forest plantations in the Region. Ensure and support monitoring and
assessment of the performance of state forest plantations against the
principles, criteria and indicators of sustainable forest management, including
the implementation of policies and regulations. Ensure that revenue collection
in the plantations is in line with finance policies and prescripts. Monitor forest
protection for risk and mitigation. Develop and implement Fire Management
Plans for estates/plantations. Strengthening human resource development,
technical capacity and cooperation at a regional level to ensure implementation
of appropriate legislation for the management of forests. Participate in the Fire
Protection Association activities in the region. Facilitate the establishment of
liaison Forums and manage stakeholder liaison. Participate in the forestry
provincial development forums and development initiatives by other
organisations
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Leseke, Cell No: 072 1991 291
APPLICATIONS : FOM13-2025@dffe.gov.za
FOM14-2025@dffe.gov.za
13
POST 37/13 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOREST SECTOR ANALYSIS (REF NO:
FOM16/2025)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or Natural Sciences or equivalent
qualification within the related field. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
Forestry or related field, of which three (3) years should be at an entry/junior
managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Knowledge of Forestry
and Environmental Management Sector, Project and Programme
Management, Public Finance Regulations, Public Service Regulations,
Knowledge of all relevant Acts such as NFA, NEMA, NEMBA, Protected areas
and NVFFA. Knowledge of enumeration for collection of data. Ability to work
under pressure, communication skills (written and verbal), Facilitation and
negotiation skills, Planning and organising, Leadership skills, Planning and
Execution, Financial Management and report writing skills. A valid Driver’s
license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Develop statistics and trend analysis pertaining to the Forest Sector. Ensure
the analysis, interpretation and provision of relevant data and information to
various stakeholders. Perform triennial analysis of the State of Forest and
periodic forest resource assessment to provide forest sector trends. Develop
periodic and on-demand qualitative analysis and report on specific forest-
sector issues. Coordinate reporting on forestry matters at a national and
international level and ensure effective representation of the forestry sector.
Develop Forestry Sector Reports. Ensure the publishing of reports on
Commercial Timber Resources and Primary Roundwood Processing in South
Africa (Commercial Timber Statistics). Manage publication of the state of
forestry reports. Provides input towards reports commissioned by other sister
Departments and other role players. Provide technical information on forest
resources and Forestry. Provide forestry technical advice on the development
of Forestry Sector strategies. Consolidate inputs and comments from internal
and external stakeholders. Ensure the publishing of forestry related articles in
various platforms. Oversee the management of an efficient knowledge and
information programme for the forest sector. Ensure compliance with regional/
international conventions, Agreements and processes. Produce reports based
on the Joint Forest Sector Questionnaire and submit to the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Participate and produce
country reports towards the Global Forest Resources Assessment Programme
led by the FAO.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hlobisile Sithole, Cell No: 082 683 5606
APPLICATIONS : FOM16-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/14 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOREST BASED ENTERPRISES REF NO:
FOM17/2025)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or equivalent qualification within the
related field. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Forestry or related field,
of which three (3) years should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant
Director level or equivalent). Knowledge and understanding of the National
Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA) and National Environmental
management Act, 107 of 1998. Knowledge of Environmental Legislation and
policies impacting on the forestry sector. Knowledge in the regulation of natural
resources. Knowledge of government administrative procedures (PFMA and
treasury regulations). Stakeholder Engagement. Strategic thinking and
Leadership Management. Problem Solving skills. Expert Level of Computer
Literacy. Ability to work under pressure and handle criticism. Ability to gather
and analyse information. Ability to interpret regulation and develop appropriate
policy. Good interpersonal relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid
Driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage small growers’ initiatives and programmes. Develop initiatives to
support small growers in the affected provinces. iv. Provide small-scale
technical advice and support to forestry small growers. Facilitate access to
market, funding and certification for SMMEs. Conduct Profiling of SMMEs
within the province. Facilitate and coordinate small grower timber production
14
enterprises. Coordinate the implementation of the afforestation programme.
Collaborate with the private sector on support mechanisms for small growers
in the sector. Facilitate and coordinate non-timber forest products enterprises.
Develop and implement a strategy framework for Non-Timber Forest Products.
Establish structures to coordinate efforts to support small growers and timber
and Non-Timber Forest Product enterprises. Ensure effective coordination and
hosting of the sessions for these structures in provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Zikhali, Cell No: 060 973 4232
APPLICATIONS : FOM17-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/15 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND
COORDINATION REF: BC15/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQ6) in Public Management or Administration or equivalent
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five
(5) years’ experience in information management, of which three (3) should be
at entry/ junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent).
Knowledge of project planning methodologies such as critical path planning.
Knowledge of computers and database/spreadsheet/ word processing
software. Biodiversity Management Conservation Management. Public
Administration. Project Management. Public service prescripts and procedure.
Ability to conceptualize and organize project planning process. Ability to take
responsibility and function under minimal supervision. Ability to work with wide
range of people. Skills: Computer literacy. Excellent communications and
leadership skills. Excellent planning and organizational skills Problem-solving
skills. Ability to accurately review and complete detail-oriented information and
projects. Ability to conceptualize and organize project planning process.
Personal attribute: Team player; Goal orientated; Working under pressure;
Loyalty; Commitment; Honesty and integrity; Enthusiasm; Reliability; Personal
presentation; Positive self-esteem; initiative and creativity; Self-Motivation;
Adaptability; Ability to take responsibility and function under minimal
supervision. Ability to work with wide range of people.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the implementation of bilateral activities arising from
the biodiversity related Memoranda of Understanding with other countries.
Ensure implementation and reporting on the progress, the outcomes approach
in terms of Outcome 10 and outcome 7. Facilitate the development of
implementation agreements with stakeholders for the advancement of the
biodiversity science/policy interface. Provides advice to participants; serves as
a liaison, analysing information, providing documentation, and preparing
reports. Develop a set of national indicators for biodiversity and conservation
for long term monitoring. Implement a system to track indicators over time and
compile reports. Provide secretariat functions for stakeholder engagement
platforms (Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), Intergovernmental
Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES)
ENQUIRY : Mr S Malete (012) 3009511
APPLICATIONS : BC15-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGET REPORTING (REF NO: CFO19/2025)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Accounting or Finance or relevant qualification
within the Financial Management field as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
five (5) years’ experience in Management Accounting environment of which
three (3) should be at entry/ junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or
equivalent). Training in MS Office packages (Word and Excel specifically at
Intermediate level), BAS & Vulindlela. Knowledge of strategic planning and
budgeting. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies and
legislation. Knowledge of HR management practices, legal issues, negotiations
and dealing with conflict. Assist in career planning and effective deployment of
personnel. Ability to control and manage the acquisition of services and assets
of the department. Ability to develop and apply policies. Advanced skills in
financial; project management; Good interpersonal relations; Stakeholder
engagement; Research skills; Financial Management; Change Management
and knowledge management; Problem Solving and Analysis and People
15
Management and Empowerment. Ability to work individually and in team. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflict.
DUTIES : Undertake financial planning, budgeting, and reporting work to ensure that
information for planning purposes is collected and analysed properly, manage,
review, analyse and quality assure the budget preparation process and
coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the management accounting
reporting processes. Monitor the policy and legislative framework to ensure
that cognisance is taken of new developments, develop and maintain policies
and processes, monitor cash flow and submit cash flow reports and plans as
required. Provide advice and guidance to role players on the use of forecasting
methods and tools. Manage the roll-over, adjustment estimates (ENE), and
virement process to ensure that information on the requirement for role-over
requests are disseminated to responsibility and program managers and that all
roll-over requests are considered, proposal developed submitted to the CFO
for consideration. Donor funding management of expenditure and reporting.
Develop and manage the operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on
progress as required. Maintain discipline and quality control of work delivered
by employees.
ENQUERIES : Ms D Malibe, Tel: (012) 399 9146
APPLICATIONS : CFO19-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/17 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A: AQUACULTURE INNOVATION &
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT REF NO FIM06/2025
SALARY : R761 157 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Aquaculture Technology and Demonstration Centre (ATDC), Gariep Dam, Free
State
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s (BSc) Honours Degree (NQF8) in Aquaculture/ Agriculture/
Ichthyology/ Aquatic Parasitology/ Zoology or equivalent qualification within the
related field as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) years’ post-qualification
experience in aquaculture research and compulsory registration with the
SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist. Theoretical and practical
knowledge of aquaculture production systems, inland fisheries, breeding and
aquatic animal health and welfare. Proven ability to carry out quantitative
analysis and report and peer reviewed scientific publication writing and
scientific reviews. Knowledge of animal ethics as it relates to animal research.
Familiar with software applications and statistical analysis of data. Knowledge
of animal ethics as it relates to animal and applied aquaculture research.
Practical aquaculture breeding, aquatic animal handling and biosecurity skills.
Good communication, analytical and problem solving and analysis skills. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Undertake basic and applied aquaculture and inland fisheries research on
priority species in line with the Aquaculture Research and Technology
programme and inland fisheries policy. Provide information on new
technologies and research developments through continuous professional
developments. Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Gather,
interpret and statistically evaluate empirical and experimental data to inform
policy and practice. Compile detailed technical and scientific reports,
proposals, concept notes and policy briefs for departmental identity and
consolidate sectoral needs for methodologies and decision-support tools in
inland aquaculture and inland fisheries. Monitor and evaluate aquaculture
research programmes and demonstrate activities. Support the ATDC with
optimizing breeding and hatchery programmes. Maintain effective stakeholder
and client relationships to promote adoption of best practices and evidence-
based approaches. Mentor, train and supervise candidate scientists, interns,
students and aquaculture technicians at the ATDC and provide structured
learning and development opportunities to support growth of technical capacity
in the sector
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Bernatzeder, Tel No. (082) 687 5333
APPLICATIONS : FIM06-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/18 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: SUSTAINABLE
AQUACULTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: FIM07/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust Building)
16
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Natural/ Environmental Sciences or equivalent
within the related field as recognised by SAQA. Six (6) years’ experience in the
marine environment field. Knowledge of the Marine Living Resources Act
(MLRA) and other legislation related to Aquaculture. Understanding of
environmental impact assessment. Knowledge and understanding of
environmental management principles, laboratory procedures and data
analysis. Experience in administrative procedures and database development
and management. Understanding of policy and legislation development.
Proven research methodology (interpretation of findings), project management
skills. Communication, interpersonal and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Manage the granting of rights in accordance with section 18 of the MLRA and
other legislation. Coordinate the assessment process of the Marine
Aquaculture Rights application. Monitor efficiency throughout the assessment
process to ensure that the service standard is met. Review, develop and
monitor the implementation of marine aquaculture industry related policy and
legislative guidelines. Manage the issuing of permits in accordance with section
13 of the MLRA. Oversee the processing of permits and exemptions. Ensure
quality output on the permit applications submitted. Check and monitor
progress to ensure service standards are met. Advice potential farmers, new
applicants, and existing permit holders on permit application procedures,
conditions and requirements. Monitor compliance to all relevant legislative
provisions and report non-compliance to relevant authorities. Oversee site
visits and inspections of aquaculture facilities to ensure compliance with
legislation. Oversee aquaculture authorisation advisory services to
stakeholders and ensure that quality information is provided. Provide and
manage administrative, information management, and personnel management
with regards to aquaculture authorisation. Provide mentorship, peer review of
documentation and quality control. Oversee improved performance, capacity
building and skills development for aquaculture authorisation officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Njobeni, Tel No. (082) 924 0101
APPLICATIONS : FIM07-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/19 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: EMI LEGAL SUPPORT
(RCSM08/2025)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four-year Degree (NQF8) in Natural or Environmental Sciences or equivalent
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA, plus six (6) years’
post qualification experience in the relevant field. A postgraduate qualification
in Environmental Law would be an added advantage. Understanding of
environmental, administrative, criminal and Constitutional law and its
application to the environmental compliance and enforcement management
system. Ability to apply legal aspects to practical environmental compliance
and enforcement matters. Excellent written and verbal communication skills,
particularly with regard to the drafting of legal opinions which supports the work
of Environmental Management Inspectors across the Inspectorate. The ability
to interact with and provide assistance to a wide range of stakeholders, as well
as an understanding of intergovernmental relations and co-operative
governance. Knowledge in general government administrative, financial and
procurement procedures and processes Leadership, analytical, problem-
solving and negotiation skills. Information management and computer literacy
skills. A service-orientated approach and ability to work efficiently and
effectively under pressure. Ability to work independently, or as part of a team.
Must be able to work in a meticulous manner, under pressure and conform to
deadlines determined by supervisor. Be willing to travel and in possession of a
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support the work of Environmental Management Inspectors by providing
written and verbal responses to requests for legal support or advice from
environmental compliance and enforcement stakeholders, including
Environmental Management Inspectors and other regulatory authorities.
Obtain legal counsel’s opinion where required. Support responses to requests
submitted in terms of Promotion of Access to Information Act 2 of 2000 (PAIA).
Undertake a legal review of draft documents developed by Environmental
Management Inspectors, including formal correspondence, notices, directives
etc. Provide proactive legal support and advice in the form of legal advisories,
opinions and case summaries relating to environmental compliance and
17
enforcement. Review, develop, maintain and update appropriate legislation,
policies, procedures and guidelines in support of the Environmental
Management Inspectorate. Assess, develop, update, maintain and procure
compliance and enforcement information resources, including relevant
publications and manuals, as well as electronic information resources and
platforms. Contribute legal content to publications, including annual reports
and quarterly newsletters. Draft and review memorandums of
agreement/understanding with external stakeholders relating to environmental
compliance and enforcement. Provide legal support to facilitate compliance
and enforcement capacity development within the Inspectorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mark Jardine Tel: 012 399 9497
APPLICATION : RCSM08-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/20 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: EMI CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: (RCSM07/2025)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Natural or Environmental Sciences or
equivalent qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA, plus six
(6) years’ post qualification experience in the relevant field. Knowledge and
experience in the design, development, implementation, presentation,
monitoring and evaluation of compliance and enforcement capacity-building
programmes. Ability to interact with and provide assistance to a wide range of
stakeholders as well as an understanding of intergovernmental relations and
co-operative governance. Excellent written, verbal and visual communication
skills, including the ability to develop training curriculum. Sound knowledge of
the legislative framework related to the Environmental Management
Inspectorate (EMI) in South Africa. Strategic, problem-solving and
organisational skills. Knowledge in general government administrative,
financial and procurement procedures and processes. Administrative and
logistical skills, including project management, government procurement,
budgetary monitoring and events management. Customer responsiveness with
a focus on skills and capacity development objectives. Be willing to travel and
in possession of a valid driver’s license. Ability to work independently, and as
part of a team. Computer literate and meticulous.
DUTIES : To plan, implement, facilitate and participate in the national environmental
compliance and enforcement (basic and specialised) capacity-building
programme for Environmental Management Inspectors; as well as other
relevant regulatory authorities, including South African Revenue Service:
Customs (SARS), South African Police Service (SAPS), National Prosecuting
Authority (NPA) and the Border Management Authority (BMA) etc. Administer
and facilitate venue procurement oversight, presenter logistics, assessments,
curriculum development and review and record keeping. Implement a
monitoring and evaluation process in respect of the national compliance and
enforcement programme. Provide capacity development support to operational
projects of national, provincial and municipal Environmental Management
Inspectors and other compliance and enforcement role-players. Liaise and
collaborate with international and domestic environmental authorities and
donors as well as tertiary education institutions, NGOs and other relevant
stakeholders on compliance and enforcement capacity-development
initiatives. Develop appropriate training curriculum to be delivered through the
national environmental compliance and enforcement capacity-building
programme. Monitor the procurement of venues and initiate and administer
other related goods and services (including training-related presenters,
equipment, publications etc.) required to support the delivery of environmental
compliance and enforcement capacity development and operational initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mark Jardine Tel: 012 399 9497
APPLICATION : RCSM07-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/21 : CONTROL BIODIVERSITY OFFICER GRADE A: BIODIVERSITY GLOBAL
CHANGE: REF NO: BC14/2025)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Natural/ Environmental Sciences or equivalent
qualification within the related field, as recognised by SAQA, plus six (6) years
18
post qualification experience in the relevant field. Appropriate experience in the
development, coordination, facilitation and implementation of Biodiversity and
Climate change strategies and policies. Knowledge of multilateral
Environmental Agreements relating to biodiversity and climate change. Good
knowledge and understanding of biodiversity and climate change as well as
Ecosystem based Adaptation (EbA) and /or Nature based solutions. Project
management skills, interpersonal skills, presentation skills, ability to interact
professionally with a wide range of stakeholders, planning and organizational
skills and an ability to write and interpret technical reports. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and implementation of climate change adaptation
tools for the biodiversity and ecosystems sector. Provide support in the
implementation of the Ecosystem based Adaptation strategy and associated
guidelines. Convening of the Ecosystem based Adaptation community of
practice. Provide technical support in the coordination, integration of
Ecosystem based adaptation across government sectors and institutions to
identify opportunities for strengthening EbA Outcomes. Provide technical
support with the coordination and implementation of multilateral Environmental
Agreements. Provide technical line function support and advice to other Sub-
Directorates within the Directorate as well as intergovernmental and national
structures including clients within the public service, private sector and civil
society on biodiversity and climate change matters and issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Barney Kgope, Tel: (012 399 9165)
APPLICATIONS : BC14-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/22 : CONTROL BIODIVERSITY OFFICER GRADE A: WILDLIFE ECONOMY
MSMEs SUPPORT SERVICES REF: BC16/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Environmental Management/ Natural Sciences
/ Natural Resource Economics or equivalent qualification within the related field
as recognised by SAQA, plus six (6) years post qualification experience in the
relevant field. Knowledge of the NEMA; NEMBA; NEMPAA, NBES, CBD,
CITES and White Paper on Conservation and Sustainable Use of South
Africa’s Biodiversity. Knowledge of general government administrative
procedures and processes (PSA & PSR). Financial and Procurement
administrative procedures (PFMA & Treasury Regulations). Knowledge and in-
depth understanding of the Biodiversity Operation Phakisa. Skills: Planning
skills; Good communication skills; Negotiations skills; Policy development;
Computer literacy and Creativity; Report writing skills and Organisational skills.
Personal Attributes: Innovative and proactive. Ability to work long hours
voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Proven leadership skills.
Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work independently and in a
team. Ability to lead multidisciplinary team. Good interpersonal relations skills.
Ability to work under extreme pressure. Conflict management and resolution.
DUTIES : Support to Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) within the wildlife
sector. Identify and enter into partnerships to facilitate MSMEs growth and for
the implementation of the Wildlife Economy Lab outcomes. Undertake scientific
and economic research relevant to the wildlife sector. Coordinate reporting of
the wildlife sector in terms of jobs created and economic contribution.
Participate in the development, review and implementation of the Biodiversity
Economy Satellite account. Monitor, review, and evaluate progress on
implementation plans. Support and encourage product owners to obtain all
operating licenses for all relevant products in their respective game farms or
wildlife ranches. Facilitate post-game donation or custodianship support
initiatives such as recruitment of Wildlife Extension Officers.
ENQUIRY : Ms L Tshitwamulomoni, Tel:012 399 9611
APPLICATIONS : BC16-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/23 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
MITIGATION RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS (REF: CCAQ09/2025)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Environmental Management/ Natural Sciences
or equivalent qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA, plus
19
six years post qualification experience in the relevant field. Knowledge of South
Africa’s greenhouse gas emission profile and climate change mitigation.
Climate Change legislation polices and Strategies. Climate Change Mitigation
scenarios development and Modelling. Ability to conduct research, gather and
analyse information. Climate change models. Ability to conduct social
economic analysis. Skills: Data collection and analysis. Climate change
modelling. Climate Change Scenario Development. Systems thinking and
dynamics. Basic modelling skills; Coordination skills’ Organisational and
planning; Communication skills (written and spoken); Programme and Project
Management; Listening skills; Writing skills; Decision-making skills; Report
writing skills; Organisational skills and Computer Literacy. Personal Attributes:
Innovative and proactive. Ability to work long hours voluntarily. Ability to gather
and analyse information. Proven leadership skills. Ability to develop and apply
policies. Ability to work independently and in a team. Ability to lead
multidisciplinary team. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under
extreme pressure. Conflict management and resolution. Ability to organise and
plan under pressure. Ability to collect and interpret information and reports.
Interpersonal relations. Initiative. Responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Facilitate the collection of greenhouse related data and Climate change
mitigation Information for the country. Ensure the facilitation and conduction
climate change mitigation research, analysis and studies to inform mitigation
interventions and response measures of low carbon development. Develop
methodologies and approaches that facilitate the implementation of climate
change mitigation response measures and interventions. Facilitate the
development of analysis tools such as models to be used for the analysis of
greenhouse gas data, socio-economic impact etc.
ENQUIRY : Mr. P Mabina, Tel (082) 537 4924
APPLICATIONS : CCAQ09-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/24 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NON-INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
(EP20/2025)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : North-West Province
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Environmental Science/Environmental
Management or equivalent qualification within the related field as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years in a Project Management role.
Appropriate biological sciences knowledge. Strong experience in Natural
Resource Management. Knowledge of administrative procedures; financial
management; project management and programme management; personnel
management; sound organizing and planning skills and good communication
skills. Ability to compile reports, listening and writing skills. Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written). Proven experience at supervisory
and contract management level. Computer literacy. Problem solving and
conflict management. A Valid drivers’ licence as well as above average
numerical literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of Environmental Programmes Non-
Infrastructure projects. Assist with administration of MOAs and contracts
signed with entities and service providers. Support the recruitment process of
create work opportunities of EPWP. Assist with monitoring and reporting of
expenditure progress for budget allocated for project operations. Conduct
monthly project performance review with service providers and entities. Ensure
compliance with Environmental Programmes Non-Infrastructure projects.
Conduct regular sit inspection on all current and completed projects sites.
Verify accuracy and compliance of in-field project site clearing data. Conduct
project risk assessment to identify, implement and report on mitigations and
control improvements. Facilitate the development and review of project
operational plans. Assist with drafting, review and approval of annual detailed
project plans. Assist with mid-term revision APP targets and budgets for project
under implementation. Facilitate the stakeholder’s engagement through
identification and engage with relevant stakeholders to support the
implementation of projects. Liaise with relevant organs of state to ensure
coordination and partnerships at district and local level concerning planning
and implementation of invasive alien plants. Participate in the implementation
of public environmental awareness and education programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr UR Bahadur, Tel: 012 252 0263
APPLICATIONS : EP20-2025@dffe.gov.za
20
POST 37/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: WOODLAND AND INDIGENOUS FOREST
MANAGEMENT (BC18/2025)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or Nature Conservation or Environmental
Science or equivalent qualification within the related field. Three (3) years’
experience in Indigenous Forestry or Provincial or National Parks or related
field. Knowledge, and evidence of application of the following legislation:
National Forest Act 1998 (Act 84 of 1998), National veld and Forest Fire Act
(NVFFA), National Environmental Management Act 1998 (Act 107 of 1998) and
NEMPA including regulations and policies regulating Natural Resources.
Policies impacting on the forestry sector. Knowledge of Environmental
Treaties. Knowledge of government administrative procedures i.e. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA)and Treasury Regulations, Occupational
Health and Safety (OHS), Performance Management systems). Knowledge of
Environmental Impacts Assessments and Geographical Information System
(GIS) techniques. Good commination skills (verbal and written). Computer
literacy. Ability to work under pressure and handle criticism. Ability to lead a
team. Project management skills. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to
negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflict. Ability to work long hours.
A Valid Driver’s License and Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Ensure sustainable management of woodlands and indigenous forests through
promoting use of forests for various purposes. Provide support with the issuing
and/or approve licenses for different use in the state indigenous forest as per
the National Forest Act (NFA) delegations. Coordinate the identification of
Rare, Threatened and Endangered species (RTEs) within the state forests as
per the Principle, Criteria, Indicators and Standards Framework (PCI&S).
Conduct conservation planning and ensure compliance with national
biodiversity management frameworks. Develop and monitor the
implementation of the Directorate Business Plan, including the rehabilitation
programmes, stakeholders’ engagement campaigns. Promote the expansion
of new woodland coverage, and where possible, the restoration/rehabilitation
of ancient woodland. Conduct ecological forest monitoring and research.
Monitor and support the implementation of capacity building and environmental
empowerment strategies. Facilitate the creation of work opportunities through
the EPWP. Facilitate the supply of PPE and Equipment. Ensure Health and
safety of the employees in the workplace. Management and supervision of
employees.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Ramatshimbila, Cell No: 082 804 7621
APPLICATIONS : BC18-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/26 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT SUPPORT (REF: ODG04/2025)
SALARY : R468 459. per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Management or Administration or Business
Administration or relevant administration-related qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ proven experience within secretariat field,
governance coordination or executive roles. Knowledge of Public service
prescripts, administrative procedures, Project Management, Intergovernmental
Relations, Treasury Regulations and Financial Regulations. Advanced
proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint).
Excellent minute-taking, report writing and follow-up skills. Ability to
successfully manage a wide network of relationships. Good interpersonal
relations. Strong analytical, interpersonal, and problem-solving abilities. Ability
to handle sensitive information/documents confidentiality and maintain high
level of integrity and objectivity. Ability to work independently and in a team and
manage tight deadlines across multiple government platforms. Experience in
managing engagements across senior executive levels, including Ministers,
Deputy Ministers and Director-General. Sound organizing skills, strong
communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Provide Secretariat support to the Departmental Management Meetings for
Minister and Deputy Minister’s. Provide Secretariat Executive support for the
Director-General’s Departmental Management meetings, Bilateral with Public
Entities and Departmental Makgotla. Manage logistics, compile meeting packs,
21
take accurate minutes, and track action items. Coordinate with internal and
external stakeholders to ensure smooth committee operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Madingwane, Tel: 012 399 9880
APPLICATIONS : ODG04-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/27 : ESTATE MANAGER: WOODLANDS& INDIGENEOUS FOREST
MANAGEMENT REF NO: BC19/2025)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Bomvane Estate)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or equivalent qualification within the
related field, coupled with a minimum three (3) years relevant experience in
Indigenous Forest Management. Knowledge and understanding of National
Forest Act,1998 (Act No. 84 of 1998) and National Veld and Forest Fire Act,
1998 (Act No.101 of 1998), National Environmental Management Act (NEMA),
National Environmental management: Protected Areas Act (NEMPA), other
environmental legislations and regulatory processes. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Act, Occupational Health, and Safety Act,
PFMA, Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Indigenous Forestry and
Protected areas operational processes. Skills: People management and
empowerment, financial management, Project and programme management,
Communication (written and verbal), Leadership, Facilitation and negotiation
skills, Planning and execution. Ability to work long hours, to apply policies. work
individually and in team, work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict,
Innovative and proactive. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Preserving the biodiversity of the estate to ensure the continued livelihood
within the forest estate. Management and rehabilitation of degraded forest
areas, wetlands, and riparian zones. Implementation of National Forest Act and
National Veld & Forest Fire Act. Auditing of forests and implementation of
Corrective Action Measures as per PCIS Framework. Management of woodlots
associated with some Indigenous forests. Manage the infrastructure to ensure
the functional utilisation, maintenance, and development within the forest
estate. Roads (e.g., management roads, tourist roads, etc.). Office buildings
(e.g., offices, stores, gardens, staff houses, guest houses, ablution facilities
etc.). Tourism facilities (Recreational facilities e.g., hiking huts, guest houses,
camp sites, picnic sites, bird hides, etc.). Forest boundary beacons and fences.
Promote Environmental Awareness and manage internal and external
relationships with all interested and affected stakeholders to the estate. Ensure
presentations to visitors, schools, and communities. Promote indigenous tree
planting and Arbor week. Promote, facilitate, and monitor access by users and
visitors to educate them on the aspects of forest biodiversity management.
Ensure proper functioning of Participatory Forest Management Committees
(neighbouring farmers, communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders).
Participate in biodiversity related forums and workshops. Training of SAPS,
Communities and Forest Officers in National Forest Act and National Veld &
Forest Fire Act. Manage risk and security aspects on the estate &
administrative and related function. Develop and implement resource security
plan for the estate. Enforce regulations and legislation applicable on the estate.
Coordinate and conduct regular forest patrols. Oversee the issuing of licenses
and other relevant permits. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports
(technical and support related e.g., work plans for PMDS). Develop an
Operational Plan for the estate. Manage human resources. Provide inputs into
the development of internal standards and guidelines. Coordinate and manage
booking for in hiking huts accommodation. Inputs on the formulation of policies
and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires: Dr. TV Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC19-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/28 : SENIOR FORESTER: WOODLANDS & INDIGENEOUS FOREST
MANAGEMENT REF NO: BC20/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry/ Nature Conservation or equivalent
qualification within the related field. A minimum of two (2) years of experience
in Indigenous Forest Management or related field. Knowledge of all relevant
acts such as National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA), National
22
Veld Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No 101 of 1998) (NVFFA), National
Environmental Management Act (NEMA), National Environmental
Management: Biodiversity Act (NEMBA), Public Service Act (PSA), Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Skills: Knowledge of forest management
sector, computer, people management, leadership, planning and organising,
financial management, Environmental Impacts Assessments and
Geographical Information System (GIS) techniques. A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Implementation of the infrastructure maintenance plan within the forest estate
which deals with the following: Maintenance of forests roads, official buildings
(e.g., offices, stores, gardens, staff houses, ablution facilities, hiking huts, camp
sites, picnic sites, etc.) Maintenance of Forest boundary beacons and fences.
Assist in preservation of forest biodiversity to ensure the continued livelihood
within the forest estate, assist in the development and implementation of the
management plan for the forest estate, which deals with the following:
rehabilitation of degraded forest areas, wetlands, and riparian zones.
Implementation of the National Forest Act, 1998 (Act No. 84 of 1998), as
amended and National Veld and Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No. 101 of 1998),
as amended. Recording and monitoring and recording of rare, threatened, and
endangered species, Implementation of invasive alien plant control,
implementation of the PCI&S framework. Management of woodlots associated
with some indigenous forests. Promote environmental awareness and manage
relationships with all affected stakeholders: Presentations to visitors, schools,
and communities. Capacity building of local communities in forest related
legislations. Promote, facilitate, and monitor forest access by users and
visitors. Promote tree planting and relevant environmental campaigns. Manage
risk and security aspects of the forest estate. Staff supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Ncisana, Cell No: 040 492 0089
APPLICATIONS : BC20-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/29 : PROJECT COORDINATOR: EP NON-INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
(REF: EP16/2025)( X3 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Natural Science/Environmental Management or
equivalent qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience in the relevant field. Understanding of
Project management. Knowledge of Alien vegetation control. Good
communication skills and sound organization and planning skills. Knowledge
of Working for Water policies and procedures, knowledge of legislation relevant
to alien vegetation control will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge of
Public Service and Departmental procedures and prescripts. Computer
literacy, knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). People
management, change management and empowerment skills. Valid driver’s
license and willingness to travel and work long hours with limited supervision.
DUTIES : Provide project planning support services to the project by developing a
strategic clearing plan and an Annual Plan of Operation (APO) for approval of
budget allocation. Facilitate the implementation of project plans through the
establishment of stakeholder engagement. Monitor implementation of project
plans by conducting site audits to ensure compliance with Working for Water
policies/standards, health and safety prescripts and various environment and
agriculture legislation which governs alien vegetation control. Render projects
close out services by conducting final site inspections and facilitating the
handing over of cleared land to the land user.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabuza Tel: 012 399 9632
APPLICATIONS : EP16-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/30 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PELAGIC AND HIGHSEAS
FISHERIES MANAGEMENT REF NO FIM08/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust Building)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Public Management/ Public Administration
or equivalent administration-related qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience in administration, stakeholder
engagement and management, implementation of legislation and policies.
Knowledge of the Marine Living Resources Act, 1998 (Act No.18 OF 1998),
23
Public Service Act and the PFMA. Knowledge and experience in financial and
procurement procedures. Proven knowledge and experience in project
management. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Implement regulatory processes within the Department. Verify and validate
catch permits within the small pelagic fisheries sector. Processing of the of the
following permit types: Fish processing establishments, exemptions, exports,
imports and transport. Provide input towards drafting submissions for total
allowable catch in the small pelagic fisheries. Coordinate and facilitate
stakeholder participation. Handle logistics in convening management working
group meetings and road shows. Compile reports/ draft minutes for road shows
and meetings. Consult and communicate with stakeholders in addressing
queries related to permits and other fisheries management related issues.
Provide support towards management decisions for the small pelagic sector.
Verify right holder quota accuracy for the small pelagic fisheries permits. Refer
cases of non-compliance to relevant authorities. Provide support towards data
management. Facilitate input for database in respect of incoming and outgoing
documents. Maintain and update rights register on Marine Administrative
System (MAST).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J De Goede, Tel No. (083) 461 4522
APPLICATIONS : FIM08-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 37/31 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: GHG INVENTORY
AND SYSTEMS (REF: CCAQ10/2025)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Natural/ Environmental Science or equivalent
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA, coupled with a
minimum of one (1) year experience in a relevant field. Knowledge of
environmental and development issues (globally, regionally, locally).
Knowledge of atmospheric chemistry and industry process applications.
Knowledge of and experience in using 2006 IPCC guidelines. Good
understanding and knowledge of emission estimation methodologies and
sequestration processes, as well as sources and sinks in the respective
sectors. Good analytical and mathematical competency. Extensive knowledge
of climate change mitigation issues, including legal and policy frameworks and
other barriers, the economics and technical requirements of low carbon
development. Knowledge of South Africa’s greenhouse gas emission profile
and climate change mitigation. Ability to conduct research, gather and analyse
information. Ability to conduct greenhouse gas emission reviews. Skills: Data
collection and analysis; Analytical thinking; Coordination skills; Programme and
Project Management; Information management; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Report writing skills; Organisational skills and Computer
Literacy. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to gather and analyse
information. Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work individually and
in a team. Ability to work under extreme pressure. Ability to work with difficult
persons and to resolve conflict.
DUTIES : Lead the compilation and review of South Africa’s greenhouse gas inventory.
Support the operationalization of the national system for the greenhouse gas
inventory. Evaluating GHG inventory improvement themes from previous
emissions inventories. Ensure that data gaps are resolved for subsequent
inventories. Plan and implement GHG inventory improvement programmes.
Administer the national GHG emissions reporting programme for South Africa.
ENQEUIRIES : Ms S Mashele, Tel (012) 399 9195
APPLICATIONS : CCAQ10@dffe.gov.za
24
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
WESTERN TVET COLLEGE INVITES ALL SUITABLE AND QUALIFIED CANDIDATES TO APPLY FOR THE
FOLLOWING PERMANENT VACANCIES
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/32 : SENIOR STUDENT SUPPORT OFFICER: REF NO:CORP/SSO/05
Student Support Services
SALARY : R397 116.per annum plus benefits (Level 8)
CENTRE : Western TVET College - Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric/ NCV Level 4 Certificate. A bachelor’s degree in psychology/
Bachelor of Arts in Social Work or equivalent qualification. 3 – 5 years of
relevant work experience in Student Support Administration/Teaching and
Learning environment or related field. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must
be computer literate. Supervisory experience will be an added advantage.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of Student Support Services
Framework. Knowledge of career guidance and extra-curricular activities.
Should have good communication, administrative, report writing, problem
solving, people management, presentation, project management, team
leadership, planning and organising skills. Knowledge of Ethical regulatory and
legislative framework, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, National
Student Financial Aid Scheme and other related legislation. Knowledge of
PSET and CET Act. Knowledge and understanding of Student Support
Services Act. Knowledge and understanding of electoral processes.
Knowledge of Teaching and Learning. Knowledge of career guidance and
extra-curricular activities. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the
National Student Financial Aid Scheme and related legislation. Knowledge of
the Public TVET sector and its regulatory and legislative framework.
Knowledge of the Ethical regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and
understanding of the PSET sector. Knowledge of Education Act. Competencies
& Skills: Administrative, Planning and organizing, financial management, report
writing, communication and interpersonal, problem solving, analytical, client
oriented, project management, team leadership and people management.
DUTIES : Ensure the provisioning of Pre Entry, on course and Exit Support for students.
Ensure the provisioning of career guidance, placement assessment for
students. Ensure the provisioning of student counselling and academic
support. Facilitate student governance and student leadership development
and exit support programme. Ensure the overall supervision and proper
coordination of Student Support Services. Ensure the overall supervision and
proper implementation of student work placement and Work Integrated
Learning (WIL) policies. Ensure the overall supervision and facilitation of
student governance, student leadership development and exit support
programmes. Ensure the overall supervision and implementation of sport,
recreation, arts and culture. Ensure the management of human, physical and
financial resources. Ensure the provision of health and wellness for the
College. Provide structured exit support to assist students with career
placement, further studies, and transition into the workforce. Create an alumni
database to track and engage former students at the college. Provision of
administrative support and comply with DHET and College Policies and
Procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to
recruitment2025@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment,
quoting the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
25
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. NB Please
ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be
disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 12:00
POST 37/33 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: PAYROLL/FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF
NO:CORP/SA/04
Financial Services
SALARY : R325 101.per annum plus benefits (Level 7)
CENTRE : Western TVET College - Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 or NCV L4 certificate plus a recognised 3-year National
Diploma or Degree in Accounting/ Financial Management/ Cost and
Management Accounting (NQF level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA or relevant
qualification. 2 to 3 years relevant work experience in financial management
environment. Knowledge of any basic financial operating systems (e.g. Pastel,
PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc. Competencies, Knowledge and Skills: Must be
computer literate (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet). Added
advantages: BAS and PERSAL certificate and Driver’s license. Basic
knowledge of the Public Service financial legislation, procedures and National
Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR). Knowledge of any financial
operating systems (PASTEL, PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS). Basic knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collate financial information Should have good numeracy,
accuracy, report writing, problem-solving, planning, organising, team
leadership and communication skills. Computer skills, Planning and
organizing, Language (Good verbal and written communication), basic
numeracy skills, ability to perform routine tasks, ability to utilise computer
equipment, flexibility, interpersonal relations, accuracy, aptitudes of figures.
DUTIES : Implementation of Budget Control and expenditure, assist with budget control
overspending in the institution, verify and validate information collected from
budget holders. Compare and verify the comparison of expenditure against the
budget. Identify variances and verify the identification of variances. Verify the
capturing, allocations virements on budgets. Provide support in terms of
Accounts Control. correct errors to ensure that amount in the Pastel system
are accurate, valid and complete. Provide support on income and expenditure
management. Prepare bank reconciliation where required, ensure that salaries
control and related are reconciled and cleared monthly. ensure that debit
orders are valid, accurate and complete. Assist with any ad hoc and other
requests within the Finance division. Prepare monthly income and expenditure
reports for management and council committees. Gather and summarise
financial data and compile financial reports. Prepare and reconcile for monthly
creditor’s, monitor creditors age analysis, assist with key lead schedules for the
annual financial audit and respond to audit queries. salaries and debtors.
Monitor Tax Administration and Reconciliation. Process all monthly salaries
and ensure processed correctly. Monitor employee tax deductions and prepare
payment packs for third party deductions. Manage requests and processing of
tax directives where necessary. Administer employee tax deductions. Oversee
the distribution, management and control of IRP5/IT3(A) Certificates. Prepare
monthly payroll reconciliations, ensure all salary monthly debit orders and
deductions are valid.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to
recruitment2025@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment,
quoting the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
26
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. NB Please
ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be
disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 12:00
POST 37/34 : CLEANERS: REF NO: CORP/CLEANER/06 AND KC/CLEANER/07 (X2
POSTS)
Cleaning Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum plus benefits (Level 2)
CENTRE : Corporate Office and Krugersdorp Central
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or ABET Level 4. Knowledge of cleaning and maintenance
procedures. Basic knowledge of safety requirements attached to the duties of
the post. Knowledge of basic hand tools. Must have basic numeracy and
literacy skills to read operating instructions and notices.
DUTIES : Should be committed, hardworking and must be able and willing to work long
hours and under pressure. Must have good interpersonal relations and verbal
communication skills. Knowledge of repetitive tasks. Knowledge of hygiene
and facilities policies. Knowledge of relevant legislation, prescripts, policies,
and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to
recruitment2025@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment,
quoting the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. NB Please
ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be
disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 12:00
27
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
CLOSING DATE : 27 October 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post. The application must include only completed and signed new
Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POST
POST 37/35 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LOGISTICS AND
ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: 25/104/FMS
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy
(MS Word; Excel, Power Point and Outlook); Planning and organizing skills;
Communication (written and verbal) skills; Good interpersonal relations skills;
Administrative skills; customer service orientated;
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render asset management clerical support; Render
demand and acquisition clerical support; Render logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
28
ANNEXURE F
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT
The Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) is a Government Component within the Ministry for
Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. It is a Schedule 3 entity regulated in terms of the Public
Service Act, 1994, as amended. MISA’s primary function is to support municipalities in infrastructure
planning implementation, operations and maintenance. MISA invites suitable candidates to apply for the
following positions, based in MISA Head Office in Centurion, Pretoria.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
emails provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 16:00 Applications will not be considered after the closing
date: 24 October 2025
NOTE : For All Applications: Applications must quote the relevant reference number
and consist of: A fully completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za/ ’’From 1 January 2021 should an application
be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be
considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone
numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application
but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified qualifications , all non-SA citizens
must submit a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa.. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for all posts
will be subjected to (1) a technical/practical exercise; (2) integrity assessment
(3) personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification,
financial records, qualification; and for SMS posts (4) verification a generic
managerial competency assessment and applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected
to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interest declaration
within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The department
reserves the right not to fill the post(s).
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/36 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERVICES REF NO:
MISA/AC-FAS/02 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Misa Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. No experience required. Core
Competencies: Financial Management. Generic Competencies: Problem
Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication
(verbal & written), Computer literacy. Technical competencies: In depth
knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act no. 1 of 1999) and
Treasury Regulations. Basic Accounting System (BAS) and PERSAL System
or VIP system.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Financial
Accounting Service: Process invoices within 30 days. Create debts and follow
up on recovery of debt owed to the department. Capture Journals on the
system. Compile cashbooks on a monthly basis. Perform general ledger
reconciliations. Perform filing. Salaries section: Process payroll. Perform
employee tax reconciliation. Process third party pay-overs. Process travel and
subsistence claims. Perform filing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jesse Chetty, Tel. 067 391 7387/ 012 848 5300
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to
misa2@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 37/37 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: DEMAN AND ACQUISITION REFE NO:
MISA/SCC-DA/03
SALARY : R 228 321 – R 268 950 per annum (Level 5)
29
CENTRE : Misa Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Senior certificate or equivalent qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Core Competencies: Client orientation and customer focus. Problem
Solving, Planning and Organising, Communication (Verbal & Written) and
Computer Literacy. Technical competencies: In depth knowledge and
understanding of: Procurement processes. Treasury regulations (8.2.3). The
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide secretariat
support during the bid considerations and contracts conclusion process.
Update and maintain a supplier database. Register suppliers on Logis or
similar systems. Request, receive quotations and place orders. Capture
specifications on the electronic purchasing system. Issue and receive bid
documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jesse Chetty, Tel. 067 391 7387/ 012 848 5300
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to
misa3@tttrecruitment.co.za
30
ANNEXURE G
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 27 October 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV Only (with
detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your application
being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA
(only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only
when shortlisted). If the Z83 is not completed as prescribed your application
will not be accepted. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the
closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents
should not be password protected, and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA
cannot be held responsible for server delays. All applications must reach the
NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA
uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed
applications. Please DO NOT contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed
your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received. If you
have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the
closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not to
fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from
the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants Who Are Successful Must
Please Note That The Npa Is Not In A Position To Pay Resettlement Costs NB!
All employees considered for appointment to the Investigating Directorate
Against Corruption will be subject to a lifestyle audit and integrity vetting.
31
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/38 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS RECRUIT 2025/495 (2
POSTS)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183.per annum (Total Cost Package) (SMS Level 14)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. At least five years’ experience in Organised Crime.
Admission as an Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good advocacy skills as well as developed
skills in legal research and drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal
law and procedure, the law of evidence, and the relevant international
instruments on organised crime. Proven experience in handling complex
organised crime, racketeering, or money laundering cases. Strong leadership,
strategic thinking and decision-making skills. Willing to travel. Excellent
communication and advocacy skills. Excellent general management and
project management skills as well as computer skills. Ability to work under
pressure and manage high profile, sensitive matters. Ethical integrity,
impartiality and commitment to the rule of law and justice.
DUTIES : To guide investigations and conduct prosecutions of identified cases/major
investigations/ projects. To exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute,
and to give any necessary advice and report to the Head of the OCC. To ensure
that decisions to prosecute or not prosecute are made timeously and do
comp\y with all relevant legal prescripts, the Constitution, and all applicable
policies procedures, and directives. To provide high level, professional and well
researched opinions and reports to the Head of the OCC. To manage and direct
governance and operations in the OCC. To monitor and review strategy and
operations and provide enterprise performance reports. To liaise with regional
offices and arrange meetings in this regard. To render professional advice to
the Head of the OCC as required; To ensure that plans are in place to promote
good stakeholder and partner engagements; To provide inputs into the NPA’s
and NPS’s Annual Plans and ensure that the OCC’s Annual Operational Plan
is developed and implemented; To monitor delivery of the regional offices in
line with the NPA’s Strategy Against Organised Crime, National and provincial
Intake criterion and National and provincial Implementation Plans. In order to
ensure that the regional offices meet targets: to continuously analyse, review
and monitor operational performance of the offices in order, inter alia, to identify
operational deficiencies and to monitor the achievement of strategic objectives
and annual targets, To develop any performance or delivery improvement plans
or make such interventions as circumstances may require; To oversee the
development and implementation of appropriate employee performance
management systems; To initiate and implement joint training initiatives by
establishing training needs both at national and regional levels for the OCC
and relevant stakeholders. To meet with relevant stakeholders on a regular
basis in order to effectively execute the mandate of the OCC. To prepare and
execute presentations whenever required. To guide, check and process
racketeering applications. To ensure the NPA’s FATF obligations are complied
with.
ENQUIRIES : Glittering Hlophe Tel No: 012 845 6336
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025495@npa.gov.za
POST 37/39 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS RECRUIT 2025/496
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183.per annum (Total Cost Package) (SMS Level 14)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
32
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the Constitutional Court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nosiseko Mabaleka Tel No: 012 842 1465
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025496@npa.gov.za
POST 37/40 : CHIEF FORENSIC DATA CASE ANALYST RECRUIT 2025/497
(Re-advert)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (Total Cost Package) (SMS Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree (NQF level 7) qualification in Computer
Science/Information Systems/Statistics/Forensic Science/Forensic
Accounting/Policing/Criminology or related qualification with specialisation in
data analysis, data science, big data, machine learning, and/or forensic
investigations. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. At least 10 years’ experience
in data analysis, data science, databases (design, implementation and
administration) and forensics investigation of which 5 years should be at a
middle management level in a legal/investigative/financial environment in roles
related to investigations, financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance.
Vocational training in Anti-corruption and financial crime/anti-money
laundering/corruption investigation techniques/data analysis
tools/cybersecurity. Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE), Certified Data Analysis
(CDA, Certified Information Systems Auditor (C) Certified Anti-Money
Laundering Specialist (CAMS) or other Data Science and Analytics
certifications. Experience in managing and directing Forensic Service
providers in criminal and forensic matters. Experience in testifying on criminal
matters in at least the High Court will be an added advantage.(Persons that
have been found as an unreliable witness in any court would not be
considered) Experience in handling investigations and/or security breaches
involving Electronic data storing devices or cybercrimes. Valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Oversee the provision of a specialised services in respect of data analysis and
presentation of finding. Oversee the process of creating relational databases
and data science tools for mining data sets to support evidence-based
investigation and prosecution of cases. Oversee the development and
maintenance of data models using data mining and other analytical techniques.
Oversee the execution of special operations in line with the provisions of
relevant legislation. Oversee the compilation of report and ensure the court
readiness of investigations. Providing managerial activities. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: 012 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025497@npa.gov.za
POST 37/41 : CHIEF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR RECRUIT 2025/498 (2 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
33
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (Total Cost Package) (SMS Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree (NQF level 7) or Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) /
B-tech qualification in policing and /or criminal investigation related. At least 10
years’ experience in criminal investigation of which 5 years should be at middle
management level. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Certified fraud examiner or
ICFP (Institute of Commercial Forensic Practitioners) SA accreditation would
be an added advantage. Vocational training in criminal investigations such as
the detective Learning Programme and/or other specialised investigation
courses. Experience in testifying criminal matters in at least the High Court.
(Persons that have been found as an unreliable witness in any court would not
be considered). Experience in managing and directing forensic service
providers in criminal and forensic matters. Strategic capability and leadership,
general management, and empowerment. Administration skills,
communication, planning and prioritising, customer focused and
responsiveness, problem solving and decision-making. Knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to public service administration,
specifically: The Constitution of South Africa and the rights of suspects, the
Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977, Prevention Organized Crime Act 121 of
1988, with emphasis on racketeering, money laundering and asset forfeiture
provisions, the NPA Act, Prevention and combating of corrupt activities Act 12
of 2004. Knowledge of writing skills, legal and administration, logistics
management internal control and risk management, Knowledge of the NPA and
policies and procedures relevant to the job functions. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage strategic planning and implementation of criminal investigations.
Coordinate and manage stakeholder relations in relation to investigations.
Oversee the conducting of criminal quality investigations within the allocated
responsibilities of the investigation groups. Oversee national criminal
investigative projects and administrative functions. and prosecution cases.
Ensure the overall provisioning of digital forensic examinations. Oversee
strategic leadership pertaining to the development, implementation and
maintenance of procedures, policies, guidelines related to data analysis and
digital forensics. Liaise with local and international law enforcement institutions
on financial and criminal investigators related matters. Oversee the compilation
of reports and ensure the court readiness of investigations. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: 012 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025498@npa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/42 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/499
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110.per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
cost package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult
matters, including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including
indictments and court documents, dealing with representations. Knowledge of
asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Well-developed skills in legal
research and legal drafting. Strong interpersonal and communication skills.
General computer proficiency and knowledge of programs in MS Office. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organization and communication skills. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Conduct prosecution of serious,
complex and organized commercial crime and corruption matters. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
34
charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s
case in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management independently. Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Advise
the police on the investigation of serious, complex and organized commercial
crime cases and corruption matters. Be able to guide and supervise junior
advocates. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Takalani Mfuni Tel No: 011 220 4827
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025499@npa.gov.za
POST 37/43 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/500 (2 POSTS)
(Re-advert)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110.per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
cost package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Ability to act
independently. Experience or knowledge in environmental cases will be an
added advantage. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Decision
making ability. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in Ms Office. The
incumbent will be required to travel within the region. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Ensure accurate statistics and good governance. Mentor
and coach junior staff (Prosecutors/ Advocates) and quality check their work.
Provide appropriate guidance and direction and issue proper instructions to
Advocates/Prosecutors/ SAPS/DPCI on all aspects of work. Participate in the
performance assessment of staff being mentored. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: 013 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025500@npa.gov.za
POST 37/44 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/501 (OCC)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 195 110.per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
cost package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Five (5) years’ experience in legal practice will be
added advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience in the prosecution of
organised crime cases. Admission as an advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of and/or experience in the litigation of
the Prevention of Organised Crime Act matters. Written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work independently. A valid driver’s licence
35
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution of serious complex and organised crime cases and
corruption matters. Advice the police on the investigation of serious, complex
and organised crime matters and corruption matters. Conduct legal research
and keep-up to date with legal developments. Draft charge sheets and other
court documents and represent the state in all courts. Present cases in court,
lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and do appeals and reviews.
Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the state.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: 013 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025501@npa.gov.za
POST 37/45 : SENIOR DIGITAL FORENSIC ANALYST RECRUIT 2025/502
(Re-advert)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Total Cost Package) (MMS Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) / B-
tech qualification in policing, law, forensics, computer science, data and
physical science; software engineering or equivalent. 5 years’ experience of
which 3 years should be in a junior level in criminal and/or forensic
investigations environment in a legal/investigative or financial environment.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Vocational training in criminal investigations
specialised courses. Certification in either Cellebrite, FTK, Oxygen or any
forensic tools. Experience in testifying on criminal matters in at least the
Regional Court. (Persons that have been found as an unreliable witness in any
court would not be considered). Experience in managing and directing forensic
service providers in criminal and forensic matters. Strategic capability and
leadership, administration skills, communication, planning and prioritising,
customer focused and responsiveness, problem solving and decision making.
Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service
administration, specifically: The Constitution of South Africa and the rights of
suspects, the criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977, Investigation of common law
offences as it pertains to fraud, forgery, uttering, theft, and offence involving
dishonesty. Understanding of law of evidence in civil matters. Knowledge and
experience of a wide range of computer/digital/devices/ cellular phones,
software/operating systems, Knowledge of database structures and
configuration for formats such as SQL, SQLite, ESE, plist and MXL.
Experience in at least EnCase, Cellebrite and XRY. Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Manage/ recover evidential data from computers, mobile devices, CCTV
systems, servers, emails, cloud storage and other electronic devices with the
standing Cyber Crime Act, and ISO17025 accredited investigative techniques.
Manage the conducting of quality digital forensic examination of electronic
devices or other devices which may contain data. Manage the development,
maintenance and implementation of policies, standards, procedure and
guidelines on digital forensic and related matters. Provide operational
leadership and guidance with regards to overall conducting of digital forensics,
handling, and safekeeping of electronic devices. Manage planning and
implementation for expert services regarding examination and research.
Manage/compile investigation report. Ensure that appropriate security and
access control of forensics tools, system and evidence are maintained at all
times. Supervise staff. Guide expert testimony in court relevant to the
investigations. Testify on the data extracted from the devices.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: 012 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025502@npa.gov.za
POST 37/46 : SENIOR FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR RECRUIT 2025/503 (5 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (MMS Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 recognised three (3) year Diploma, Advanced Certificate or
equivalent qualification in e of the following: Forensic investigation, Forensic
Auditing, Law, Criminal Investigation. At least five years financial investigation
in a legal /Investigative/financial environment in roles related to investigation,
financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance. Vocational training in one
36
of the following: Forensic Investigation, Forensic Auditing, Law or any other
specialised financial investigation courses. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive.
General management and project management Skills. Strategic capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer service and
responsiveness. Communication Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research
and administration skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage and conduct case planning. Manage and conduct financial
investigation. Manage/execute special operations in line with the provisions of
relevant legislation. Co-ordinate and manage stakeholder relations with
regards to financial investigations. Provide administrative support with regard
to case management. Manage and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Bheki Sithole Tel No: 012 845 7786
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025503@npa.gov.za
POST 37/47 : SENIOR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR RECRUIT 2025/504 (6 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (MMS Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 recognised three (3) year Diploma, Advanced Certificate or
equivalent qualification in policing and/or criminal investigation. Minimum of 5
years criminal investigation experience with 3 years operational management
experience. Vocational training in criminal investigations such as detective
Learning Programme and/or other specialised investigation courses.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills, innovative and proactive. General management and project
management Skills. Strategic capability and leadership. People management
and empowerment. Customer service and responsiveness. Communication
Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research Skills and Administration skills. A
valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic planning and implementation of criminal investigations.
Coordinate and manage stakeholder relations with regards to criminal
investigations. Conduct criminal investigations within the allocated
responsibilities of the investigation group. Manage national criminal
investigative projects and administrative functions. Manage/execute special
operations in line with the provisions of relevant legislation. Manage and
develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Bheki Sithole Tel No: 012 845 7786
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025504@npa.gov.za
POST 37/48 : SENIOR FORENSIC DATA CASE ANALYST RECRUIT 2025/505
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (MMS Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) Computer Science/ Information
Systems/ Statistics/ Forensic Science/ Forensic Accounting/ Policing/
Criminology or related qualification with specialization in data analysis and/or
forensic investigations. Minimum of 5 years’ experience in data analysis in a
legal/investigative/financial environment in roles related to investigations,
financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance. Vocational training in Anti-
corruption and financial crime/anti-money laundering/corruption investigation
techniques/ data analysis tools/ cybersecurity/Digital Forensics. Certified
Fraud examiner (CFE), Certified Data Analyst (CDA), Certified Information
System Auditor (CISA), Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) or
other Data Science and Analytics certifications. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive.
General management and project management Skills. Strategic capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer service and
responsiveness. Communication Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research
Skills and Administration Skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the planning and implementation of data analysis and research.
Monitor the collection of data and management thereof. Manage/ conduct
37
quality analysis of data to support investigation and prosecution of crimes.
Undertake the compilation and presentation of investigation report. Manage
and develop staff
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: 012 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025505@npa.gov.za
POST 37/49 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR RECRUIT 2025/506
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 032 906.per annum (Total Cost Package) - R1 675 743.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level SU-3)
CENTRE : CPP: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: 015 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025506@npa.gov.za
POST 37/50 : HEAD COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR 3
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 032 906.per annum (Total Cost Package) - R1 675 743.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level SU-3)
CENTRE : CPP: Wynberg (Paarl) - Recruit 2025/507
CPP: Modimolle (Mokopane) – Recruit 2025/508
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting,
guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex of more difficult
common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Experience
in prosecuting and guiding investigation of more complex cases that are heard
in the Regional court and sexual offences and cases involving children. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train Prosecutors. Excellent
administrative skills. Computer literacy in MS package. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquests of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist Prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
38
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Wynberg (Paarl) Thuso Damane – 021 487 7129
CPP: Modimolle (Mokopane) Thuba Thubakgale – 015 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Wynberg (Paarl) e mail Recruit2025507@npa.gov.za
CPP: Modimolle (Mokopane) e mail Recruit2025508@npa.gov.za
POST 37/51 : STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/509
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904.per annum (Total Cost Package) to R1 539 321 per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP- 7 to LP-8)
CENTRE : CPP: Bellville (Blue Downs)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience in the
prosecution of Sexual Offences; Criminal Procedure, Civil litigation and
management of Gender based violence matters. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. High
level of proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/ arguing cases in court.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, to perform
any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and functions assigned to
the prosecution under any Act and/ or the Policy Manual and / or any directives,
inter alia, study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings, including proceedings of an advanced or complex nature in the
dedicated sexual offences courts. Prepare cases for court, guide
investigations, and consult with witnesses, draft charge sheets and other court
documents, including documents that are more complex in nature. Present the
State’s case in court. Present evidence, cross-examine and address the court
on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. To ensure criminal and civil litigation in
compliance with requirements legally imposed upon the State regarding
aspects of criminal and civil activities relevant to the mandate of the National
Prosecuting Authority on the management of gender-based violence and all
matters incidental there to. To track, monitor and facilitate cases through the
Criminal Justice System, manage the court rolls at dedicated sexual offences
courts. Securing the attendance of witnesses, investigating officer’s and
accused in custody at court. Ensuring a reduction of turnaround time in the
finalization of cases in line with the mandate of NPA. Assist to improve
functional relationships with stakeholders. Constant follow up with the relevant
stakeholders. Assist to improve the conviction rate. Supervise, train and
develop relevant role-players where required. Submit monthly reports
(including statistics) regarding performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Sonwabiso Mkwakwi Tel No: 021 487 7234
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025509@npa.gov.za
POST 37/52 : STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/510 (2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 per annum (Total Cost Package) to R1 539 321.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP- 7 to LP-8)
CENTRE : DPP: Limpopo (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal investigations
and giving instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of and or experience in the litigation of the Prevention of Organised
Crime Act (POCA) matters. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work independently.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
39
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: 015 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025510@npa.gov.za
POST 37/53 : PROJECT MANAGER RECRUIT 2025/511 (2 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (Total Cost Package) (MMS Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) Three-year National Diploma (NQF
level 6) in Business Administration/Public Administration or equivalent. Three
years’ experience in managing projects in the public sector, legal or
investigative environment. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Project Management
certification (Prince2, PMP, CAMP). Knowledge of PFMA, POCA, PSA and
NPA Act. Eligible for confidential security clearance.
DUTIES : Coordinate multidisciplinary investigation teams and task forces. Develop and
maintain detailed project plans, including scope, timelines, risks, resources,
and deliverables. Arrange operational logistics (venues, transport,
data/evidence managing. Consult with internal and external stakeholders (e.g.
prosecutors, law enforcement, SARS, AFLJ, international partners, witness
protection). Monitor project scope, quality, deadlines, and risks; escalate critical
issues promptly. Maintain project dashboards, case-tracking tools, and
administrative records. Produce and submit weekly and monthly status reports.
Uphold ethical standards confidentiality, and compliance with PFMA, POCA,
Public Service Act, and NPA Act.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: 012 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025511@npa.gov.za
POST 37/54 : FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR RECRUIT 2025/512 (5 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 three year Diploma, Advanced Certificate or equivalent in
Forensic investigation, forensic Auditing, Law, Criminal Investigation or related
qualification. Minimum of three years’ experience financial investigation in a
legal/investigative/financial environment in roles related to investigations,
financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance. Vocational training in
Forensic Investigation, Forensic Auditing, Law or any other specialized
financial investigation courses. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive. General
management and project management Skills. Strategic capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer service and
responsiveness. Communication Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research
Skills and Administration skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Conduct case planning. Conduct financial investigation. Execute special
operations in line with the provisions of relevant legislation. Attend to
stakeholder engagement in relation to financial investigations. Provide
administrative support with regard to case management.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: 012 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025512@npa.gov.za
POST 37/55 : FORENSIC DATA CASE ANALYST RECRUIT 2025/513 (7 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) in Computer Science/ Information
Systems/ Statistics/ Forensic Science/ Forensic Accounting/ Policing/
40
Criminology or related qualification with specialization in data analysis and/or
forensic investigations. Minimum of three years’ experience in data analysis in
a legal/investigative/financial environment in roles related to investigations,
financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance. Vocational training in Anti-
corruption and financial crime/anti-money laundering/corruption investigation
techniques/ data analysis tools/ cybersecurity/Digital Forensics. Certified
Fraud examiner (CFE), Certified Data Analyst (CDA), Certified Information
System Auditor (CISA), Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) or
other Data Science and Analytics certifications. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive.
General management and project management Skills. Strategic capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer service and
responsiveness. Communication Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research
Skills and Administration skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Plan and implement data analysis and research. Collect and manage data.
Conduct quality analysis of data to support investigation and prosecution of
crimes. Execute special operations in line with the provisions of relevant
legislation. Compile and present investigation report.
ENQUIRIES : Bheki Sithole Tel No: 012 845 7786
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025513@npa.gov.za
POST 37/56 : CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR RECRUIT 2025/514 (13 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 three-year Diploma, Advanced Certificate or equivalent in
Policing and/or Criminal Investigation or related qualification. Minimum of three
years’ experience in a legal/investigative environment in roles related to
corruption investigations, commercia related crimes and/or financial crimes.
Vocational training in criminal investigations such as the detective Learning
Programme and/or other specialized investigation courses. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, innovative and
proactive. General management and project management Skills. Strategic
capability and leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer
service and responsiveness. Communication Skills. Planning and Prioritising.
Research Skills and Administration skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Conduct strategic planning and implementation for investigations purposes.
Attend to stakeholder engagements I relation to investigations. Conduct
criminal investigations as authorised by the Investigating Director. Execute
special operations in line with the provisions of relevant legislation. Participate
in national criminal investigative projects and administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: 012 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025514@npa.gov.za
POST 37/57 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION RECRUIT 2025/515
(Re-advert)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Finance, Public Administration or equivalent qualification. Minimum three
years relevant experience in finance and/or administration in the Public
Service. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills, innovative and proactive. Decisive under pressure and solution
orientated. Negotiating and supervisory skills. Problem solving skills and ability
to meet strict deadlines. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to
public service administration specifically the Public Service Act, PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Strong administrative, decision making, organizational
and general office management skills. Good planning skills. Performance
management skills. Execution, interpretation and recommendations on policies
and procedures. Computer literacy in programmes such as MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook. Reliable, organized and able to work in a team.
41
DUTIES : Manage and supervise court administration including court roll management,
court statistics compilation. Manage the provision of effective register services.
Develop and maintain reliable register system to monitor the movement of files,
documents and faxes. Manage corporate services files. Manage finance and
supply chain functions. Compilation and interpretation of budget. Manage
regional expenditure. Supervise management of S & T claims. Compile and
submit monthly finance statistics. Implement and ensure compliance with
policies and procedures. Liaise with the stakeholders/customers and suppliers.
Perform monthly inspections. Act in the absence of Director: Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: 053 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025515@npa.gov.za
POST 37/58 : STATE ACCOUNTANT RECRUIT 2025/516
Financial Management -Sub Directorate Internal Control
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Financial Management/ Accounting/Auditing or other relevant qualification.
Minimum two (2) years relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Knowledge of Legislation and Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act, Treasury
Regulations, and other government related legislations. Understanding of the
Public Finances in the public sector. Good Communication, liaison, and
presentation skills. Knowledge of LOGIS System, PERSAL, BAS. Computer
literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook).
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good
administration skills. People management and empowerment. Planning and
prioritising skills. Problem solving and decision making. Valid
DUTIES : Conduct interim investigation into fruitless, wasteful and loss cases. Maintain
an updated register for all investigations. Validate payment batches against
checklist. Present cases of Theft and Losses to the Loss Control Committee.
Prepare reports for the Loss Control Committee an Expenditure Control
Committee. Provide Secretariat support to the Loss Control Committee. Report
on Internal Controls within the Finance Component. Prepare Appointment
letters to newly appointed Loss Control Committee Members. Attend to Audit
queries. Provide support with regards to Awareness Workshops for Losses
within the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Mashane Sebesebe Tel No: 012 845 6595
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025516@npa.gov.za
POST 37/59 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK RECRUIT 2025/517
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
interpersonal relations. Good administrative skills. Planning and organizing.
General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide high level HRM&D administration to the region. Facilitate the
recruitment process. Process applications for service benefits and exit in the
region. Provide HR advice to staff in the region. PERSAL Administration.
Compile and submit monthly statistics on HR related functions. Liaise with
customers and stakeholders regarding all HR Functions. Assist in the training
and development programs in the region. Assist in the performance
assessment process.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: 053 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025517@npa.gov.za
42
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X 944. Pretoria 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number). Applications can also be emailed to
Recruitment10 @dpme.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules.
SMS will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by
DPSA. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for non-
SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted
will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the
post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not to fill a
vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process. Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for
employment) that is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can
be downloaded on the website of the Department of Public Service &
Administration (DPSA) at www.dpsa.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF
NO:10/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 741 770.per annum (all-inclusive salary package) (Level 15). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
43
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant and appropriate NQF level 8 qualification in either Public
Administration/ Social Science/ Business Management, Law/ Strategic
Management/ Human Resources and 10 years appropriate experience of
which 8 years must be Senior Managerial level. NQF level 9 (Master’s Degree)
will be an added advantage. Being able to communicate effectively by
exchanging information and ideas in a clear and concise manner appropriate
for the audience in order to explain, persuade, convince and influence others
to achieve the desired outcomes. Be able to display and build the highest
standards of ethical and moral conduct in order to promote confidence and
trust in the Public Service. Deep knowledge of the Government legislative
framework, Public Service legislative and Policy Framework, Government
Medium Term Strategic Framework linked to the National Development Plan,
Advanced knowledge of public policy analysis and policy development
process, Stakeholder management and coordination, Strategic thinking and
leadership, Research skills, Financial and Human Resource Management.
Knowledge of the Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Competencies &
Skills: Management skills including people management and empowerment,
and involvement in managing multi-disciplinary teams. Ability to provide
strategic direction and leadership. The ability/experience to create an
environment for high performance culture and staff development. Ability to
manage multiple projects. Excellent interpersonal & communication skills
(written & verbal) and the ability to communicate with diverse audiences. Highly
developed negotiation and conflict management skills. Strategic and analytical
skills. Research and policy analysis skills. Financial, Computer and
project/programme management skills. Personal Attributes: The incumbent
must be assertive, self-driven, innovative, client and solution orientated and
able to work under stressful situations.
DUTIES : The successful incumbent will be responsible for providing strategic Corporate
Services to the Department. This involves providing strategic leadership and
coordination in the development, implementation and monitoring of the
strategic plan, annual performance plan, annual report and communication
services of the department. Oversee the provision of strategic and integrated
human resource services, effective security and facilities management
services to enhance management support and organisational performance.
Provide strategic leadership and oversee the provision of Information,
Communication and Technology services and the implementation of the ICT
plan to support management operations. Coordinate all administrative inputs
to Ministry, DG, external stakeholders and strategic control points. Effective
management of the resources of the branch to ensure compliance with
statutory requirements. Provide leadership in the coordination of all
administrative functions and services assigned to the branch with specific
reference to Strategic, Annual Performance and Operational planning and
budgeting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo, Tel No (012) 312- 0453.
44
ANNEXURE I
THE DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Candidates must
submit applications to recruitment7@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference
number for the abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when
applying i.e REF NO: O: BF
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. All shortlisted candidates for SMS and/or MMS (MMS
optional) posts will be subjected to (1) a technical exercise, (2) a generic
managerial competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Department of Small Business Development is committed to the
pursuit of diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
presentively in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POST
POST 37/61 : BLENDED FINANCE “REF NO: O: BF
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Development Finance / Economics / Financial
Accounting / Corporate Finance / Business Leadership / Business
Administration /Administration / Public Administration / Social Sciences or
equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year experience in
Development Finance / Economics / Financial Accounting / Corporate Finance
environment. Training in MS packages and valid driver’s licence. Have proven
competencies: Communication (written and verbal), Project and Programme
Administration, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Analytical and Problem
Solving, Financial acumen, Service Delivery Innovation, Teamwork and
Collaboration.
DUTIES : Conduct desktop research on blended finance initiatives to support MSME
growth. Collect and analyse data to inform access to finance strategies.
Support the development of policies, frameworks, SOPs, and templates
guiding MSME funding interventions. Coordinate responses to MSME and
cooperative enquiries related to financial and non-financial support. Facilitate
internal and external stakeholder engagements and maintain communication
channels. Provide administrative and logistical support for the directorate
inclusive of but not limited to: drafting of correspondences, submissions
presentations, reports, and logistical support during events, workshops,
meetings, minute-taking and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097
45
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan).
46
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses: For: DDG: Community
Development – e-recruit.ddgcd2@dsd.gov.za, DDG: Corporate Support
Services – e-recruit.ddgcss@dsd.gov.za, Parliamentary and Cabinet Support
– e-recruit.pcs@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr TZ Mapela
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr TZ Mapela.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
47
POST 37/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (REF:
M1/A/2025)
Branch: Community Development
Re-advertisement (Applicants who applied before need not to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 813 182.per annum This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Developmental
Studies or Social Sciences or Economic Development or Community
Development as recognized by SAQA PLUS a minimum of 8 years’ experience
at senior management level. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa.
Knowledge of i) Reconstruction and Development Programme, ii) the Growth
Path, iii) Municipal System Act, iv) Rural Development Act, v) Population and
Development Policy, vi) the relevant Public Service Legislative frameworks, vii)
PFMA and Treasury Regulations, public management and administration
principles. Knowledge and understanding of policy development. Knowledge
and understanding of the NPO framework, and other NPO related Bills and
Policies. White Paper on Transformation of Public Service. Knowledge of
Social Service Professions Act, 110 of 1978, as amended. Understanding of
the management of strategic plans, business plans and budgeting. Knowledge
of the Acts that governing the implementation of social development services
and programmes. Understanding and knowledge of community development
related Legislations, Policies, Frameworks and norms and standards.
Knowledge and understanding of involvement in the international structures/
stakeholders (UN Convention and AU). Knowledge of Kings IV Report for
Corporate Governance. Knowledge of National Development Plan (NDP).
Knowledge of National Development Agency Act. Competencies needed:
Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project management.
Financial Management. Policy Analysis and Development. Information and
Knowledge Management. Communication. Service Delivery Innovations.
Problem Solving and Change Management. People management and
empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Stakeholder
Management. Presentation, Facilitation and Coordination. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Independent thinking.
Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Oversee, manage and report on the development of
sustainable community development legislative frameworks, policies,
strategies, operational frameworks, guidelines and effective programmes.
Oversee, manage and report on the implementation of sustainable community
programmes aimed at community mobilization, sustainable livelihood, poverty
alleviation and reduction programmes to empower poor communities, families
and individuals. Oversee, manage and report on coordination, effective and
efficient non-profit organization (NPOs) registration, compliance, operations,
coordination and monitoring systems, processes and application. Oversee,
manage and report on the budget, human resources and performance of the
branch in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FP Netshipale, Tel: (012) 312-7662/7556
NOTE In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 37/63 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SUPPORT SERVICES
(REF: M1/B/2025)
Branch: Corporate Support Services
SALARY : R1 813 182.per annum This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
48
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 8 in Social Sciences/ Public
Management/ Business Administration/Industrial Psychology/ Legal Services
as recognized by SAQA PLUS a minimum of 8 years’ experience at senior
management level. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge
of the relevant Public Service Legislative Framework. Knowledge of PFMA and
Treasury Regulations Knowledge and understanding of public management
and administration principles. Knowledge of White Paper on Transformation of
Public Service. Knowledge of macro and micro policies such as MTSF, NDP,
MTEF, ect. Knowledge of Batho Pele principles. Knowledge and understanding
of government reporting requirements. Competencies needed: Strategic
capability and leadership. Programme and project management. Financial
Management. Policy Analysis and Development. Information and Knowledge
Management. Communication. Service Delivery Innovations. Problem Solving
and Change Management. People management and empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Stakeholder Management. Operational
Planning and Budgeting. Presentation, Facilitation and Coordination.
Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovative and creative. Independent thinking. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Confidentiality. Political sensitivity. Cost
consciousness. Honesty, integrity and Ethics. Emotional Intelligence. Ability to
evaluate/ analyse information and to select an alternative that best meets the
needs of the impeding situation. Strategic awareness. Customer service
oriented and focus. Accountability. Ability to exercise appropriate judgement.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Oversee and manage the provision of information
management systems technology services. Oversee, manage and report on
the human capital management services. Oversee and manage
communication services. Oversee and manage provision of legal services.
Oversee and manage the provision of auxiliary services. Oversee, manage and
report on the budget, human resources and performance of the branch in line
with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FP Netshipale, Tel: (012) 312-7662/7556
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 37/64 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT (REF: M1/C/2025)
Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R896 436.per annum This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year degree or equivalent qualification as recognized by
SAQA PLUS 6-10 years’ experience. Knowledge of Ministry operations. Proven
management competencies. Broad knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the executive authority’s portfolio. Working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa.
Competencies needed: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and
project management. Policy Analysis and Development. Information and
Knowledge Management. Communication. Service Delivery Innovations.
Problem Solving and Change Management. People management and
empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Stakeholder
Management. Presentation, Facilitation and Coordination. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Independent thinking. Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability.
Confidentiality. Political sensitivity. Cost consciousness. Honesty, integrity and
Ethics. Emotional Intelligence. Ability to evaluate/ analyse information and to
select an alternative that best meets the needs of the impeding situation.
Strategic awareness. Customer service oriented and focus. Accountability.
Ability to exercise appropriate judgement.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Monitor events in Parliament/the legislature to identify
matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the executive authority. Monitor
events in Cabinet/Executive Council to identify matters that have a bearing on
49
the portfolio of the executive authority. Render an efficient and effective
parliamentary service. Co-ordinate and control movements between the
Pretoria and Cape Town offices for Parliamentary sessions. Study the relevant
Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to
ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FP Netshipale, Tel: (012) 312-7662/7556
50
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at Tourism House,
17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025, 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file, indicating the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Failure to do so, your application being disqualified. Applications quoting
the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each advertised post must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C, and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered, and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following the communication
from Human Resources, and such qualifications (s) and other related
documents (s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a (1) practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical
and generic requirements, and (2) an ethical conduct test. Candidates will
further be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification, and employment
verification). Some of the interviewed candidates for Senior Management level
vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day competency assessment that will test
generic competencies. Appointment will be subject to the signing of the
performance agreement, employment contract, and annual financial
disclosure, and must attain a security clearance applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/65 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION AND ASSET MANAGEMENT (DT
24/2025)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year NQF 7 qualification in Commerce, Financial
Management, Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management. Five
years’ working experience in Supply Chain Demand and Acquisition
Management of which three years must be at Assistant Director. Knowledge of
51
Supply Chain Management prescripts. Knowledge of Treasury regulations.
Knowledge of the Logis system. Knowledge of the BAS system. Knowledge of
the PFMA. Financial management. Good leadership skills. Good presentation
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Effective planning and organising skills.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for designing and developing
asset management systems and policies; conducting physical asset
management planning and verification; monitoring and reviewing the capturing
of all assets in the asset register; monitoring and reviewing the allocation of
assets to asset holders; overseeing and reviewing the monitoring of assets in
accordance with relevant policies and procedures; identifying and facilitating
procurement of replacement assets for redundant and obsolete assets;
providing monthly asset reconciliation reports; conducting investigations on
assets reconciliation variance, losses, damages and unverified assets;
updating the fixed asset register and inventory lists; providing submissions on
recommendations to departmental disposal committee’s considerations;
providing inputs on assets notes to the quarterly, interim annual financial
statements; evaluating and recommending IT related procurement; facilitating
the issuing of orders for goods and services (system and manual); facilitating
payment of goods and services to service providers; facilitating delivery of store
stock to internal clients; facilitating the availability of store stock in the
warehouse; verifying and signing-off the year plan for the warehouse
stocktaking; managing the conducting of stocktaking; ensuring the signing of
stocktaking reports; ensuring the approval of balance adjustments; enforcing
compliance with the terms and conditions of the contracts; authorising/
certifying correctness of the accrual report; consolidating commitment and
accrual report for the financial year end; managing commitment and accrual to
the minimum level; managing the filing of procurement batches awaiting
deliveries; providing inputs to financial statements in terms of inventory,
accruals and commitments; undertaking all administrative functions required
with regard to financial and HR administration; developing and managing the
operational plan of the sub-directorate and reporting on progress as required;
developing, implementing and maintaining processes to ensure proper control
of work; compiling and submitting all required administrative reports; managing
performance and development; quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo, Tel. (012) 444 6773
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment EE Requirements:
Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and people with disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATION : email application Recruitment24@tourism.gov.za
POST 37/66 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT (DT
25/2025)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 7 qualification in Commerce, Financial Management,
Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management. Five years’ working
experience in Supply Chain Demand and Acquisition Management of which
three years must be at Assistant Director. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management prescripts. Knowledge of Treasury instructions and practice
notes. Knowledge of the Logis system. Knowledge of the Public Service Act
and Regulations. Good leadership skills. Good communication skills.
Computer literacy (MS Office). Good planning skills. Effective written and
verbal communication skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for designing and developing
demand management policies, processes and procedures; performing
strategic and annual supply chain demand management planning; monitoring
and reviewing the demand management activities; compiling tender/quotation
specifications as required; verifying suppliers to comply with the BEE
requirements; controlling the rotation of suppliers to ensure equal
opportunities; compiling, implementing and reporting on the operational and
risk plans related to demand management and providing monthly management
52
reports; compiling and publishing requests for proposals where required;
managing, designing and developing acquisition management policies,
processes and procedures; compiling departmental operational/ supply chain
acquisition management plan and obtaining approval; managing the execution
of the acquisition management plan; monitoring and reviewing the acquisition
management activities; managing the sourcing of bids from the database
according to the threshold values determined by the National Treasury; setting
up the Bid Evaluation, Bid Adjudication and Bid Specification Committees and
rendering a secretariat services to the relevant committees; overseeing the
bidding process; management of internal and external audit queries;
managing, undertaking and reviewing the monitoring, analyses and
determination of actions to ensure proper contract administration;
administering variations to contracts; reporting on deviations to National
Treasury and AGSA; evaluating applications for price adjustments and invoking
penalty clauses; evaluating applications for variations, amendments and
cancellations and developing proposals for approval; undertaking disputer
resolution and ensuring that all documentation is prepared and available for
resolving disputes; managing the coordination, review and monitoring of
contract compliance by determining whether product/services are delivered at
the right time, in the right quantity, right products, right place, right conditions
and right quality; undertaking all administrative functions required with regard
to financial and HR administration; developing and managing the operational
plan of the sub-directorate and reporting on progress as required; developing,
implementing and maintaining processes to ensure proper control of work;
compiling and submitting all required administrative reports; managing
performance and development; quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo, Tel. (012) 444 6773
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment EE Requirements:
Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and people with disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATION : email application to Recruitment25@tourism.gov.za
53
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided, the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 27 October 2025
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
and the selection panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will
further recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-
based assessment. The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela
Programme) as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must
be completed before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the
SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/67 : CHIEF DIRECTOR-COMPETITIVENESS INCENTIVES (REF NO: IFB – 118)
Overview: To provide strategic leadership and management of Incentive
Programmes under the Chief Directorate Competitiveness Incentive within the
Incentives Branch.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (Level 14) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics, Finance,
Public Management, or relevant qualification. 5 years’ experience at a senior
managerial level in Economic/Incentive Administration in both public and
private environments. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in
strategy design, planning and implementation of incentive programmes. In-
depth knowledge of incentive administration processes, systems, policies and
procedures. Knowledge of relevant legislation and broader government
economic policies, financial and operational risk reporting, and PFMA/Treasury
Regulations. Ability to manage internal controls, governance processes,
compliance frameworks, and risk management. Strong stakeholder
management skills with experience in building partnerships with local and
international institutions. Proven ability in financial management, project
management, programme management, and strategic planning. Excellent
report writing, research, presentation, communication and problem-solving
skills. Strong people management, leadership and empowerment skills.
Computer literacy (MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Policy Analysis & Programme Development: Analyse policies, regulation and
legislation to Strategy and Planning. Design and implement strategies and
54
action plans for effective incentive administration. Prepare funding requests,
spending plans, and delivery team consolidation. Competitiveness Incentive
Interventions. Provide guidance on developing and managing systems,
policies and procedures. Oversee research, automation, and continuous
improvement of incentive administration. Lead the implementation of improving
applications and claims documentation and templates for efficient incentive
administration Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitor performance against
operational and project plans, incentive reconciliations, and risk registers.
Evaluate implementation progress of approved projects and manage
contingent liability. Stakeholder Management. Establish and maintain strategic
partnerships with local and international institutions. Manage stakeholder
relations, resolve client challenges, and communicate programme progress.
Internal Controls and Governance. Oversee audit processes, legal disputes,
compliance with guidelines, and SOP development. Proactively manage all
legal disputes, litigation cases and legal responses. Ensure training on
governance, legislative processes, and risk mitigation. Chief Directorate
Management. Oversee strategic, operational, financial and human resource
management of the Chief Directorate. Provide strategic leadership to the
development and execution of operational plans for incentive schemes.
Communicate performance criteria and oversee compliance with standards
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe, Tel No: 012 394 3103/ L Mabokela 012 394 1809 / D Mathavha, 012
394 3864 / K Xaluva, 012 394 1563
POST 37/68 : DIRECTOR: AGRO PROCESSING & TEXTILES- (REF NO: IC&G - 097)
Overview: Manage the development and implementation of policies, strategies
and programmes for the Agro-Processing 1 (Aquaculture, Rooibos, Sugar,
Poultry Citrus, Cannabis, Honey bush products and Red Meat)
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum, (level 13) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Agricultural Economics
/ Commerce / Development Studies or any other related field. 5 years’ relevant
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in an Agriculture or Agro-
Processing environment in both public or private sector. Key Requirements:
Experience in policy development, strategy formulation and implementation for
agro-processing subsectors. Knowledge of industrial policy, trade policy,
agricultural marketing legislation, and broader government economic policies.
Strong research, analytical and problem-solving skills with ability to interpret
sector performance data. Demonstrated stakeholder management skills,
including ability to liaise with all spheres of government, industry associations,
organised labour and international bodies. Proven experience in managing
people, budgets and assets at a directorate level. Competence in project
management, planning, organising and monitoring programme
implementation. Excellent written and verbal communication, presentation,
advocacy and negotiation skills. Computer literacy (MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Development of Agro processing sector strategy: Build an understanding of the
agro-processing institutional support system and actively align and build the
capacity of key stakeholders across the various spheres of government in order
for the agro-processing system to work more effectively. Support the mature
agro-processing subsectors to higher growth paths through critical
interventions along the value chain. Identify and facilitate investments by the
private sector and the state in critical market-enabling agri-infrastructure that
unlocks opportunities for agglomeration and rural development. Facilitate the
development of high opportunity/ high growth niche sectors that have
significant export potential. Facilitate strategic mega-investments that are
transformative to the sector, create jobs and unlock value chain potential.
Develop high-potential food processing suppliers on scale through facilitating
upgrading programmes in partnership with the retailers and large agri-business
players. Manage the development and implementation of Agro-Processing 1
sub-sectors programme and strategies. Manage and direct the Industrial Policy
Action Plan processes, including the development of the key Action
Programmes and their implementation. Manage the development and
maintenance of databases of key companies in the Agro-processing sector.
Engage in continual policy advocacy and coordination in the Agro-Processing
industry that has potential growth. Manage the development of the National
Food Control Agency legislative framework. Research and analysis. Manage
the quarterly analysis of the performance of the Agro-Processing Industry.
55
Provide guidance in research related to the Agro-Processing programme,
which underpins the policies and strategies of the programme. Manage
analysis to formulate or review the Agro-Processing policies, procedures and
strategies in line with Industrial Policy. Stakeholder management: Create
platforms for continuous engagement with key stakeholders. Manage the
stakeholders, including other Government departments to develop a
supporting policy environment. Liaising, consulting and networking with
appropriate and relevant stakeholders for developing joint programs aimed at
improving the competitiveness of the Agro-Processing industry. Represent the
department in all forums and focus groups, addressing the sector challenges.
Initiate and provide inputs in meetings with industry associations and export
councils to ensure alignment with the work of the unit. Directorate
Management: Manage staff /personnel. Manage financial resources and
assets of the unit. Manage the strategic planning of the unit. Monitoring and
Evaluation. Manage the review of policies and methodologies and benchmark
against international best practice. Provide support with the implementation of
programmes. Develop and monitor corrective action to facilitate the
implementation of the interventions
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103/ L Mabokela
012 394 1809
POST 37/69 : DIRECTOR: ACCOMMODATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES (REF NO:
CMSB - 024)
Overview: To provide professional and strategic direction regarding Facilities/
Accommodation Management, Vetting and Security services to the dtic, its staff
and clients in such a way that employee morale is maintained and enhanced.
Managing the PPP agreement on the dtic
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (level 13) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in a Facility
Management, Engineering or related field. 5 years of experience in
middle/senior management in a Facility Management environment Key
Requirements: Knowledge of and experience in OHSA, Disaster Management
Act, National Environmental Management Act, PPP Concepts, Project
Management (registered), quantity surveying, risk management (insurance
and transfer) and space planning. Sound knowledge of, inter alia, the PFMA,
Public Service Act, ISO 9000, ISO 14000, and ISO 18000/45001 series.
Knowledge of legislative frameworks and best practice protocols governing.
Facilities Management/infrastructure maintenance and soft services, Security,
PPPs, and Occupational Health & Safety (e.g., PFMA, OHS Act, PSIRA,
MPSS, MISS). Proven experience in contract and stakeholder management.
Strong financial management experience, including budgeting and expenditure
control for large-scale facilities. Project management skills related to
infrastructure, security, and OHS implementation. Strong analytical, planning,
problem-solving, and decision-making skills. Excellent communication,
stakeholder engagement, and leadership capabilities. Results-driven with a
deeply felt commitment to customer service delivery and innovation. Due to the
nature of the work (oversight over the dtic security and vetting units), the
appointment of the ideal candidate will be subject to successful security
clearance and the candidate must have no criminal record.
DUTIES : Facilities & Accommodation Management: Develop and implement policies
and strategies for effective facilities management. Oversee office space
allocation, asset management, building maintenance, and utilities. Manage
lease agreements and ensure compliance with legislative requirements,
including Public-Private Partnership (PPP) frameworks. Drive cost efficiency in
operations while ensuring a conducive working environment. Security
Management: Develop, implement, and monitor security strategy, policies and
procedures in line with Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and
Minimum Physical Security Standards (MPSS). Ensure effective access
control, surveillance systems, and physical security measures. Conduct
security risk assessments, manage emergency response protocols, and
coordinate security operations with law enforcement agencies. Vetting
Services: Ensure a robust personnel vetting and background screening
process in collaboration with the State Security Agency (SSA) (this name may
be changing). Oversee risk profiling, security clearance applications.,
Occupational Health & Safety (OHS): Establish and maintain a compliant OHS
56
framework in line with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Conduct regular
risk assessments, develop, implement, and monitor safety strategy, oversee
fire safety protocols, and ensure effective emergency preparedness, including
evacuation drills and first aid readiness. Promote a safe and healthy workplace
through awareness programs and compliance monitoring. Strategic &
Financial Management: Oversee the budget planning, expenditure control, and
resource allocation for the Directorate. Provide strategic input into policy
development and ensure alignment with organizational goals. Lead and
manage a team of professionals to drive efficiency and service excellence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103/ L Mabokela
012 394 1809
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/70 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMME (REF
NO: IFB - 181)
Overview: To manage and administer the Critical Infrastructure Programme
(CIP).
SALARY : R1 059 105. per annum, (level 12) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics, Business
Administration, Financial Administration or related qualification. 3–5 years’
relevant managerial experience in Incentive Administration in both public or
private sector environments. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in
the evaluation of applications and claims within an incentive administration
environment. Knowledge of relevant legislation and broader government
economic policies, financial and operational risk reporting, and PFMA/Treasury
Regulations. Proven ability to manage stakeholder relations, including
applicants, financial institutions, service providers, and government
departments. Strong analytical, problem-solving, planning and organising
skills. Competence in project management, strategic management and
computer literacy (Microsoft Office). Excellent communication (written and
verbal), presentation, interpersonal and stakeholder management skills. Ability
to manage human resources, budgets, and assets within a sub-directorate.
DUTIES : Application Evaluation and Processing. Manage and monitor the evaluation of
applications, workflow processes, and compliance with programme guidelines.
Conduct risk management, verify company information, and resolve audit
queries. Interact with clients and conduct business site visits. Claims
Administration: Oversee the receipt, assignment, monitoring, and quality
assurance of claims. Ensure efficient and effective claims processing and
reporting. Programme and Policy Management: Compile operational, risk,
expenditure and performance reports. Monitor the implementation progress of
approved projects to minimise contingent liabilities. Provide inputs to policy and
guideline reviews. Stakeholder Management: Provide support and advice to
applicants and external stakeholders on applications and claims. Implement
customer care interventions and maintain regular communication with clients.
Sub-Directorate Management: Manage financial and human resources within
the sub-directorate. Coordinate business plans, quarterly and annual reports.
Ensure performance management processes are finalized within prescribed
timeframes.
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe, Tel No: 012 394 3103/ L Mabokela 012 394 1809 / D Mathavha, 012
394 3864 / K Xaluva, 012 394 1563
57
ANNEXURE M
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 27 October 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. NOTE: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
OTHER POST
POST 37/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RSA RETAIL BONDS REF NO: S051/2025
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To assist with the creation of a conducive environment and culture of
saving in South Africa through the marketing and issuances in the
administration of RSA Retail Bonds.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
58
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (NQF 6)/ B.
Degree (NQF 7) in Economics/ Accounting/Business Management, Marketing,
Investment and Finance, A minimum 3 years’ experience obtained in financial
markets, banking sector and capital markets, retail banking, private wealth
management. Experience in delivering internal and external customer service
excellence through adherence to quality service standards. Knowledge and
experience in creating commercially viable client solutions that deliver
measurable value and business growth. Knowledge in research
methodologies. Knowledge in market analysis related to information for
utilisation in the broader business, Experience in qualitative and quantitative
analysis of domestic markets.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: RSA Retail Bonds Administration: Assist with the
verification of withdrawals, estate and late payments and support solutions on
exceptions, Verify Proforma correspondence to investors (audit and tax
inquiries/ investor communication). Assist with interest and redemption
payments against public debt register, Engage stakeholders on the
implementation rates changes for implementation, Adhere to audit procedures
and assist auditors during annual audit process. Retail Bonds Stakeholder
Engagement: Assist in the engagement of stakeholders through roadshows
and other marketing strategies, Assist with awareness drives and engage
stakeholders on the accessibility of the product, Encourage savings through
robust intervention and exposure of the product through various stakeholders’
platforms to enhance visibility, Assist with publishing of articles on improved
bond offerings on the website and other mediums. Marketing: Assist with the
provision of inputs annually market drives and awareness campaigns. Assist
with promotions and exhibitions on new products, Benchmarking and
Research: Assist with comprehensive benchmarking initiative with reputable
local and international institutions. Assist with research to improve the product
and value proposition to maintain appropriateness within the market.
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
59
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of Government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/72 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT (MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING) REF NO:
241025/01
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations Dir: Operations
Southern
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF Level 6 qualification in Finance or related qualification. Two (2)
to (4) four years’ experience in the financial environment. The disclosure of a
valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge and practical experience on SAP
system. Knowledge of Persal and Warms systems would be an added
advantage. Computer literacy such as MS Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Sound
understanding of accounting principles and knowledge of the budgeting
process. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Good communication skills. Accountability and ethical conduct. Problem
solving and analysis. Knowledge of administrative clerical procedures and
systems. Knowledge and understanding of financial prescripts such PFMA and
Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : In-Year monitoring, monthly reporting and providing support regarding the
planning and budgeting process. Compiling and capturing of the budget. Fund
shifting of budget allocations. Assist with tariff calculations. Ensure effective
implementation of the budget policy and provide advice on the budget process
to budget controllers on correct GL allocations. Analyze expenditure trends and
deviations and provide reports to management. Assist with re-allocation of
funds and monitor movement of funds allocated within the budget. Confirm
availability of funds regarding the requisition of goods and services.
60
Processing, capturing and/or authorizing payments to customers on the SAP
system, perform payroll functions, capturing and/or authorizing staff claims on
Persal system. Management of reporting including accruals and commitments,
Address audit queries and implement corrective measures. Prepare monthly
and quarterly reports on budget expenditure. Approval of journals. Ensure
management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. NA Khan Tel No: (041) 508 9725
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 37/73 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: 241025/02
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Office
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Supply Chain Management or relevant
qualification. One (1) year experience in supply chain management. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy. Basic
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the public
service or sector. Basic knowledge of Problem solving and analysis. Basic
knowledge of SAP. People and diversity management. Client orientation and
customer focus. Good communication skill both (verbal and written).
Accountability and ethical conduct. Willingness to travel nationwide.
DUTIES : Supervise subordinates or staff. Administer the procurement of goods and
services. Ensure compliance to SCM policies, processes, and procedures.
Provide training to the internal clients regarding updates on SCM processes
and procedures. Attend to SCM related enquiries. Check purchase requisitions
and order for correctness, completeness and sign the requisition and order
documents. Release purchase requisitions and orders on SAP system.
Administer, maintain, and update contract register to ensure transparency and
record keeping. Compile audit reports. Implement controls to ensure that
purchase orders are placed for items on approved contracts and non-contract
requisitions. Receive and verify goods delivered from suppliers prior
performing goods receipts (Goods Receipt Voucher) on SAP system and
maintain goods receipts register. Issue goods to the end-users (direct and
stock purchase) Identify redundant and obsolete stock. Control stock levels
and conduct stock taking.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Mphateng, Tel No: (012) 741 7318
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 37/74 : SECURITY OFFICER SUPERVISOR REF NO: 241025/03 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations Dir: Operations
Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level (4) or (5) (A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent). Three
(3) years’ working experience in security. Security Certificate (A Minimum of 1
year of study) Grade B PSIRA certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge of access control
procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control movement of equipment
and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g., MISS, MPSS,
Protection of Information Act, and the authority of security officers under these
Documents. Good listening skills and interpersonal skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills and Computer skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by contracted security (PSSP),
ensuring adherence to Department security policies. Administrative and
Related functions, provide security-related support and administer all control
room operations to safeguard the department assets, conducts preliminary
investigations. perform unannounced visits or inspections
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MV Phosa, Tel No: (012) 741 7355/7378
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
61
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Please submit your application, quoting the relevant reference number on your
Z83 application as well as on the envelope to: The Director: Human Resource
Administration, Department of Education, Bloemfontein 9300. (Old Saambou
Building, Ground Floor, corner Charlotte Maxeke and Aliwal Street – Box at
Security and or Private Bag X20565, Bloemfontein, 9300). or: e-mail To E-Mail
Address as indicated on the Advert. Regarding e-mailed applications:
Applications must be submitted as a SINGLE document/One Attachment to the
e-mail address specified for each position. (Kindly Note That E-Mailed
Applications and Attachments Should Not Exceed 15MB). It remains the
candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is successfully
submitted.
CLOSING DATE : 29 October 2025
NOTE : Advertising of vacant public servant posts: Elementary Education &
development conditional grant: HRA circular ps 11 of 2025: Free State
provincial government: provincial administration: Free State Department of
Education It is the intention to promote representativity in the Department
through the filling of these posts. The candidature of applicants from
designated groups, especially in respect of people with disabilities, will receive
preference. Applicants must apply using the NEW Z83 form which can be
downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. From 1 January
2021 should an application be received using the incorrect application form for
employment (Z83), it will not be considered. Please ensure to complete ALL
fields on the new Z83 application form. A recent comprehensive, detailed
Curriculum Vitae (CV) containing, inter alia, a complete chronological record of
training, experience, competencies, and previous employment record as well
as the names and telephone numbers of three persons willing to act as
referees. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must only submit the Z83 and
curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents). All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks on criminal records, citizenship verification, financial records,
qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide consent
for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Separate applications must be submitted for every
vacancy. N.B.: Please note that: Incomplete and late applications will not be
considered (applications posted, couriered, and received after the closing date
and those that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered).
The onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are posted, e-
mailed or hand-delivered timeously. Failure to comply with the procedure
outlined above, will lead to an application being rejected. Applicants are
requested to complete the new Z83 form properly which must be authenticated
by a signature and initialed on both pages and clearly quoting the relevant Ref
No number for each post applied for. Applicants are informed that applications,
copies of qualifications and CVs will not be returned; Applicants who terminated
their services with voluntary severance packages may not apply; salary
progression on the salary scales is subject to performance assessment; The
FSDoE reserves the right not to fill advertised positions. It is expected of
candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place
determined by the Free State Department of Education. It is the applicants’
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA residents/permanent residents will
submit proof only when shortlisted. Applicants are respectfully informed that if
no notification of appointment is received within 4 months of the closing date,
they must accept that their application has been unsuccessful. Please note it
might be expected of short-listed applicants to complete a project. Successful
candidates on level 13 and higher must undergo a Competency test.
Introduction and general measures: NB: as of 1st July 2006, all new
appointments in the public service have to be part of the Government
Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS) in order to qualify for a Government
Medical Subsidy. Correspondence will only be entered into with shortlisted
applicants. Entry-level requirement for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on
Human Resource Management and Development on Public Service
62
Professionalisation Volume 1, a requirement for appointment into SMS posts
is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry programme
as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The Course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full
details can be obtained by following the below link:
https:www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.
Certificate to be submitted prior to appointment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/75 : DIRECTOR: ELEMENTARY EDUCATION & DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
PS11/2025/01
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum. (level 13) An all-inclusive salary
packages the total package includes 70% basic salary, a state contribution to
the Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. This appointment is subject to
the signing of an Annual Performance Agreement and obtaining a security
clearance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). 5 Years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level.
Recommendations: Valid Code B/EB Drivers license. Pre-entry certificate for
the Senior Management Services to be submitted prior to appointment. Strong
conceptual and formulation skills; strong leadership skills with specific
reference to the ability to display thought leadership and co-ordination of
complex applications; strong interpersonal skills; excellent verbal and written
communication skills; outstanding planning, organizational and people
management skills; computer literacy; a highly developed interpretative and
conceptualization/ formulation ability; the ability to render advice and guidance
in an objective and dedicated manner; The ability to multi-task, deal with
ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurized circumstances;
the ability to persuade and influence; the ability to lead and direct teams of
professionals and service providers and ability to deal with complex situations.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Ensure effective and efficient coordination and overall
management of the ECD service in the province. To manage the
implementation of strategic plan, Annual Performance Plan and the
Operational Plan. To manage the performance of the unit in term of the
Children’s Act 38 of 2005 pertaining to partial care and Child Protection as well
as the implementation of the National Curriculum Framework (NCF) and all
other applicable legislations in the ECD sector. Ensure proper Financial
management and coordination in the ECD sector in line with the PFMA and
related policies. Monitor and ensure timely transfer payments to ECDs. Ensure
proper planning, coordination of professional development of Social Workers
and ECD practitioners in the ECD sector. To ensure that Partial care
database/registers are in place and monitored. Ensure that all ECD service is
uploaded on the agreed upon Learner Management System. Ensure that
capacity building support programs and training are conducted and monitored
for ECD management and governance and output assessed. Ensure that the
district quarterly review sessions are arranged and guidance is provided on the
expected outcomes. Ensure the expansion of the ECD service within the
province by providing the necessary support across the districts. Facilitate
Inter-Sectoral Coordination to improve and better the ECD service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. ET Montso Tel No: (051) 404 8426
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment1@fseducation.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/76 : SOCIAL WORKER POLICY DEVELOPMENT: GRADE 1: REF NO:
PS11/2025/02
Permanent Grant Post: Elementary Education & Development Directorate
SALARY : R453 201 – R506 868 per annum (OSD). A basic annual salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Formal Tertiary Qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions, Compulsory registration with SACSSP as a Social
63
Worker, A minimum of 8 years appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with SACSSP. A valid driving license. Grade 2:
A minimum of 18 years appropriate experience in social work after registration
as Social Worker with the SACSSP of which 10 years must be appropriate
experience in Social Work Policy Development. Recommendations: Must be
able to generate ideas and innovative approaches in order To contribute
solutions to problems. Must be able to work effectively and cooperatively with
persons of diverse backgrounds. Must be able to write formal documentations
(ie, reports) and communicate verbally through the selection of relevant
delivery mechanisms. Must be able to identify, define problems, analyze
situations, apply critical thinking and develop solutions. Must be able manage
and build cohesive work teams , work effectively within teams including social
work teams, multidisciplinary teams and multi- sectoral teams. Must be able to
operationalize and implement the strategic imperatives and policies. Must be
able to build and maintain a network of professional relations. Must be able to
plan and organize the work of the work unit and groups. Must be able to plan
and manage projects in order to deliver on time, within cost and at the required
quality level. Must demonstrate social work values and the principles of human
rights and social justice.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Develop, implement and maintain social work policies,
Ensure that supervisees challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality,
oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Demonstrate an in depth
understanding of complex and advanced human behaviour and social
systems. Intervene efficiently and effectively at the points where people interact
with their environment in order to promote social wellbeing. Assist, advocate
and empower individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capacities, prevent
and alleviate distress and use resource efficiently and effectively. Provide
social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and
unable to protect themselves. Conduct social work research. Monitor, evaluate
and quality assure all policies and legislation. Provide support to stakeholders.
Review, develop, interpret, apply, provide guidance, analyze impact on social
work policies, legislation, related legal and ethical social work practices and
ensure that new policies are understood and implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Tladi Tel No: (066) 0159 086
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment2@fseducation.gov.za
POST 37/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTRES:
REF NR PS11/2025/03
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894.per annum (Level 9). A basic annual salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification with
Civil/Building construction as a subject. (NQF Level 6) Applicable experience
at a supervisory level. Computer literacy and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the Administration of the ECD Infrastructure grant. Management of
subordinates. Manage and compile reports
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Tladi Tel No: (066) 0159 086
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment2@fseducation.gov.za
POST 37/78 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
CENTRES:REF NR PS11/2025/04
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959.per annum (Level 7) A basic annual salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification with financial
subjects. (NQF Level 6) Computer literacy and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Chief User duties related to Supply Chain Management i.e. requisitioning and
payments. Financial Management duties such as budgeting, commitment
register and monthly compliance reporting. Supervising admin clerks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Tladi Tel No: (066) 0159 086
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment4@fseducation.gov.za
POST 37/79 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
CENTRES: REF NR PS11/2025/05: (5 POSTS)
64
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959.per annum (Level 7) A basic annual salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3-year diploma or equivalent qualification in Building or
Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed trade test or National Diploma in
Engineering. 2 -3 years relevant experience and a Valid Driver’s license
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Develop and interpret plans and sketches. Prepare
specifications and bill of quantities for maintenance and minor new work.
Inspect new and/or maintenance work undertaken on project sites to ensure
that it is being done in compliance with all relevant regulations and legislation
and that proper quality control is maintained. Compile an estimate of repairs
and costs for minor new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Advise
and guide contractors in respect of compliance to legislation and procedures.
Verify invoices and certify progress of payments. Brief contractors on projects
and certify claims for fees. Ensure effective contract administration. Facilitate
and resolve problems emanating from projects and develop progress reports
on projects. Ensure that SLA’s are signed between the Department and the
ECD centre. Gather and submit information in terms of the extended public
works programme. Perform supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Tladi Tel No: (066) 0159 086
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment3@fseducation.gov.za
POST 37/80 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
CENTRES: REF NR PS11/2025/06
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950.per annum (Level 5) A basic annual salary
CENTRE : Bloemfontein, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Recommendations: Knowledge of
Computer (Excel and Word) will be essential.
DUTIES : Assist with general office administration in the office of ECD Centres. Handling
of files, typing and keeping records up to date, handling telephone enquiries
and any other admin official duties as may be assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Tladi Tel No: (066) 0159 086
APPLICATIONS : erecruitment4@fseducation.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC, SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL
AFFAIRS
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on Z83 and CV on application all other
documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates. If you do not hear from us
within three (3) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. The department has the right not to make an appointment. The
Free State Provincial Department of Economic, Small Business, Development,
Tourism and Environmental Affairs (DESTEA) presents exciting
opportunities/positions for the qualifying unemployed graduates through its
Internship Programme. Successful applicants will be appointed as graduate
interns for the period of twenty-four (24) months and will undergo on-the-job
development training in technical, professional, public service, business and
life skills relevant and crucial for them to enter the formal job market. Through
the internship programme, the Department aims to enhance the employability
of unemployed graduates (graduates with degrees or diplomas) as potential
employees. Candidates must be entering the internship programme in
government for the first time. The Department of Economic, Small Business
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Applications must be submitted on Z83 forms only,
obtainable from any public service department and recently updated
comprehensive CV, certified copies of all qualifications and identity document
and copies of their academic transcripts will be requested from recommended
applicants who qualify for interviews. Failure to submit the requested document
will result in the application not being considered. Prospective applicants
should ensure that their applications do not exceed 4MB size. You are,
therefore kindly requested to send documents separately, should they exceed
the allowed limit. The Department has the right not to make an appointment.
NB: Please Submit separate Z83 Form Per Reference Number. People with
65
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Only Free State Province citizens may
apply. Applicants who have applied, they don’t need to re-apply.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME/IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR 2025/2027
(24 MONTHS)
POST 37/81 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH INSPECTOR INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF
NO: Destea/EH/02 (02 POSTS)
Economic Development
STIPEND : R7 860.38 per month for graduate interns
CENTRE : Fezile Dabi Service Centre (Parys)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Environmental Health/ Public Health/ Occupational Health &
Safety/ Food and Safety Management
APPLICATION : write email: internsrecruit@destea.gov.za or postal: District Service Centre
Manager: No. 73 c/o Phillips Sanders & Schillbach Street, Parys, 9585
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nnana Lentsa 082 443 5513
POST 37/82 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH INSPECTOR INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF
NO: Destea/EH/03 (02 POSTS)
Economic Development
STIPEND : R7 860.38 per month
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa Service Centre (Welkom)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Environmental Health/ Public Health/ Occupational Health &
Safety/ Food and Safety Management
APPLICATION : write email: internsrecruit@destea.gov.za or postal: District Service Centre
Manager: Boitumelo Mall, Shop N0. 107, 39890 c/o Nkoane & Ndaki Road,
Welkom, 9463
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tshidi Maleka 066 051 1279
POST 37/83 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH INSPECTOR INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF
NO: Destea/EH/04 (02 POSTS)
Economic Development
STIPEND : R7 860.38 per month
CENTRE : Thabo – Mofutsanyane Service Centre (Phuthaditjhaba)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Environmental Health/ Public Health/ Occupational Health &
Safety/ Food and Safety Management
APPLICATION : write email: internsrecruit@destea.gov.za or postal: District Service Centre
Manager: Mampoi Street, Public Works Building, DESTEA, L12 Block
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rosemary Booi 082 454 0131
POST 37/84 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH INSPECTOR INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF
NO: DESTEA/EH/05 (02 POSTS)
Economic Development
STIPEND : R7 860.38 per month
CENTRE : Mangaung Service Centre (Thaba Nchu)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Environmental Health/ Public Health/ Occupational Health &
Safety/ Food and Safety Management
APPLICATION : write email: internsrecruit@destea.gov.za or postal: District Service Centre
Manager: Office 205, Ratlou Complex, Thaba Nchu, 9780
ENQUIRIES : Ms Selloane Ramabolu 072 635 3674
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must only be done via the online
recruitment platform for the Department at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment/ Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview following communication from Human Resources. The application
must indicate the correct Job title, the office where the position is advertised
and the Reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to
fully complete the application form will lead to the disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Should you be in a possession of
66
foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin when
shortlisted. All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence when shortlisted. Applications that do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. The Department does not accept applications via fax or
post. Failure to upload and submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointments.
Applicants are informed that costs associated with the recruitment processes
i.e. travelling and accommodation will be at the expense of the applicants not
the Department.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/85 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT: FAMILY PHYSICIAN / INTERNAL MEDICINE
GRADE 1-2: REF NO: H/P/01/2025
SALARY : R2 084 754 – R2 492 571.per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, plus appropriate qualifications that allows registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist (Family Physician); Current registration with HPCSA for 2025/2026.
Valid driver’s license. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. A minimum of five (5) year’s appropriate experience as a Medical
Specialist after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Family
Physician). Knowledge And Skills: Management skills, good written and verbal
communication skills, leadership and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
Public Service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
training of clinical staff, assessment and immediate care of all family physician
patients. Good communication, interpersonal skills, computer literacy financial,
statistical skills and human resource management skills knowledge of relevant
Acts, policies, guidelines and ethical practices. Analytical thinking, independent
decision making and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Clinical management of Family Physician department, supervision and training
of clinical staff, teaching of clinical staff, assessment and immediate care of all
Family Physician patients. Provide support to other clinical departments,
ensure departmental administration is order. Participate in clinical governance,
ensure that there is clinical improvement plan to manage patients at Bongani
Regional Hospital. Develop clinical protocols for the department. Provide
leadership and promote effective working environment, Conduct or Perform
clinical audits, manage performance management and development system
for subordinates and ensure continuous development. Establish research
program to facilitate generation new knowledge contract with the Clinical
Manager and subordinates, ensure continuous professional development.
Establish research programme to facilitate generation of new knowledge.
Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of clinical services
management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public
Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff. Performance of research
within the department. Develop and enhance training and development of
healthcare workers in family physician department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
67
POST 36/86 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY (PNB1-2) FOR CLINICAL
PRECEPTORS): REF NO: H/P/1/2025 3 POSTS
SALARY : Grade 1: R476.367 - R559 548.per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954.per annum (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma or Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse and current registration. A post-basic nursing
qualification with duration of at least one year, accredited with the SANC in
either Advanced Midwifery, Adult Critical Care or Advanced Paediatric Nursing
Sciences. Current registration with SANC for 2025/ 2026. Added advantage:
Qualification in Nursing Education. Valid Driver’s License. A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse (PNB1). A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing (PNB2). At least 10 years of the period referred to above must
be appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant speciality. Of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
speciality. Knowledge And Skills: Excellent current clinical competencies and
skills in area of speciality. Good organizational, collaborative and interpersonal
skills. Computer literacy including PowerPoint Presentation Skills.
DUTIES : Collaborate with relevant stakeholders on clinical student placement matters
to coordinate clinical learning exposure and the achievement of students’
learning outcomes. Collaborate with the Clinical platforms, NEIs, HEIs, Nursing
Directorate, SANC or other Service Providers to enhance the CPD points’
implementation mandate for nursing. Facilitate the development and updating
of training SOPs and assessment tools to enhance objective determination of
learners’ and qualified nurses’ competencies. Support the functioning and
implementation of Clinical Governance systems and recommendations to
improve compliance and achievement of clinical outcomes. Manage state
resources within own sphere of control effectively and in accordance with the
Supply Chain Management prescripts. Facilitate the use of relevant electronic
systems to capture, record and manage information or data to optimize the
management of patients’ outcomes and clinical decision making. Facilitate the
cascade of the Risk Management Strategy within the UAH/ CETU component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.M. Radebe Tel (051) 405 3415/7
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 37/87 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALITY PNB 1-2 REF NO: H/P/2/2025 (5
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476.367 - R559 548.per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954.per annum (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at
least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in one of the following specialties
referred to in the glossary of terms registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. i.e. Medical and Surgical Nursing Service, Advanced Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science, Extensive Nursing Science, Oncology Nursing
Science, Operating Theatre Nursing Science and Orthopaedic Nursing
Science. Current registration with SANC for 2025/2026. A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant speciality. (of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
speciality. Knowledge and Skills: Demonstrate an understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practice.
68
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote quality
of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards
as determined by the relevant health facility. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report
writing when required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure
good nursing care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons to
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and
organise own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Display a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper
treatment and care including awareness and willingness to respond patient’s
needs, requirements expectations (Batho Pele).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/88 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (PNB 4) (CRITICAL CARE):
REF NO: H/A/1/2025
SALARY : R755 355. per annum. (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma or Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 10
years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining 1- year post basic qualification in Postgraduate/ Diploma in Critical
Care Nursing Science. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognizable experience at management level. Current
registration with SANC for 2025/2026. Knowledge And Skills: Good
organizational and interpersonal skills. Sound clinical competencies and PC
literacy. Knowledgeable about critical care clinical guidelines, norms and
standards.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and guidance to implement the Norms and
Standards for Ideal Health Facility Monitoring, OHSC, SANC, the Nursing
Strategy, relevant legislative framework, including the achievement of Annual
Performance Plan outcomes. Promote the implementation of clinical
governance systems and recommendations within critical care departments.
Supervise and coordinate provision of a professional, safe, quality patient care
by nurses, technologists/ perfusionists, radiographers, surgeons,
anaesthesiologists and other partners (internal/ external) within the continuum
of critical care for better outcomes and accessibility of life-saving services.
Facilitate cost-effective management and utilization of material resources,
various assets and human capital, including the procurement of buy-outs
needed to provide critical care services in accordance with relevant SCM
directives and legislation (PFMA/ Preferential Procurement Act). Develop and
monitor the implementation of policies and guidelines, programmes,
regulations, procedures and standards pertaining to nurses’ training,
professional development and research. Promote the use of Information
Technology to manage data/ information for the enhancement of
communication systems and service delivery. Promote effective risk
management and cascading of the Risks Action Plan within the critical care
departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.M. Radebe Tel (051) 405 3415/7
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
POST 37/89 : ASSISTANT MANAGER GENERAL (PNA-7), SURGICAL & OPD): REF NO:
H/A/2/2025 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096. per annum (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma or Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8
years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at a
management level. Current registration with SANC for 2025/2026. Added
69
advantage: A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge And Skills: Good organizational,
communication and interpersonal skills. Sound knowledge of administrative
procedures and competencies including PC literacy. Knowledgeable about
clinical guidelines, norms and standards in medical, surgical and acute mental
health issues.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and guidance to implement the Norms and
Standards for Ideal Health Facility Monitoring, OHSC, SANC, the Nursing
Strategy, relevant legislative framework, including the achievement of Annual
Performance Plan outcomes. Promote the implementation of clinical
governance systems and recommendations within allocated medical and
surgical wards/ clinics. Direct, supervise and coordinate provision of a
professional, safe, quality patient care by nurses, midwives, students, medical
teams, support services and other stakeholders (internal/ external) within the
continuum of medical, surgical and mental health care and for better outcomes
and access to specialized services. Facilitate effective management and
utilization of material resources, various assets and human capital, including
the procurement of buy-outs used to provide medical, surgical and mental
health care services while complying with relevant SCM directives and
legislation (PFMA/ Preferential Procurement Act). Develop and monitor the
implementation of policies and guidelines, programmes, regulations,
procedures and standards pertaining to nurses’ training, professional
development and research. Promote the use of Information Technology to
manage data/ information for the enhancement of communication systems and
service delivery. Promote effective risk management and cascading of the
Risks Action Plan in medical, surgical department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JM Radebe Tel (051) 405 3415 or 405 3333
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
POST 37/90 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER SPECIALTY (PNB 3) (MATERNITY) (REF NO:
H/O/01/2025 (1 POST)
SALARY : R755 355. per annum. (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse plus a Post Basic Nursing Qualification accredited by
SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatology Nursing Science with a
duration of at least 1 year. A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with SANC as a professional nurse. At
least 5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification. Current
registration with SANC for 2025/2026. Added as advantage: A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge And Skills: Leadership Skills Communication Skills,
Computer literacy. Knowledge of relevant Management and practice
legislation/standards. Ability to lead, plan, organize, co-ordinate and
communicate. Ability to take charge and make appropriate independent
decisions. Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of all Maternity Antenatal/
Postnatal and Neonatal guidelines
DUTIES : Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and other
stakeholders. Implement all strategic mandates of Nursing strategy, Regulated
Norms and Standards, Annual performance. Manage and implement all clinical
governance related matters. Ensure provision of quality nursing care according
to nursing process and patient safety standards. Manage the risks identified in
the Maternity and Neonatal Unit. Responsible for Resources: Human, financial,
material, and assets. Responsible for providing environment conducive to
education and research. Management of Information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JM Radebe Tel (051) 405 3415/7
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
POST 37/91 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER GENERAL (PNA5) (SURGICAL WARDS) -(REF
NO: H/O/02/2025 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096. per annum. (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Diploma or Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration with SANC in
70
General Nursing. Current registration with SANC for 2025/2026. Knowledge
And Skills: Good organizational, communication and interpersonal skills.
Sound clinical competencies in medical and surgical care including PC literacy.
Knowledgeable about clinical guidelines, norms and standards in medical,
surgical and acute mental health issues.
DUTIES : Provide operational leadership and guidance to implement the Norms and
Standards for Ideal Health Facility Monitoring, OHSC, SANC, the Nursing
Strategy, relevant legislative framework, including the achievement of Annual
Performance Plan outcomes. Promote the implementation of clinical
governance systems and recommendations within allocated medical and
surgical wards/ clinics. Direct, supervise and coordinate provision of a
professional, safe, quality patient care by nurses, students, medical teams,
support services and other stakeholders (internal/ external) within the
continuum of medical, surgical and mental health care and for better outcomes
and access to specialized services. Facilitate effective management and
utilization of material resources, various assets and human capital, including
the procurement of buy-outs used to provide medical, surgical and mental
health care services while complying with relevant SCM directives and
legislation (PFMA/ Preferential Procurement Act). Develop and monitor the
implementation of policies and guidelines, programmes, regulations,
procedures and standards pertaining to nurses’ training, professional
development and research. Promote the use of Information Technology to
manage data/ information for the enhancement of communication systems and
service delivery. Promote effective risk management and cascading of the
Risks Action Plan in medical, surgical and 72-hour observation units.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JM Radebe Tel (051) 405 3415 or 405 3333
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
POST 37/92 : ULTRASOUND / SONOGRAPHER RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1-3 (REF NO:
H/U/1/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 – R559 512.per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 - R657 507.per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 - R707 625.per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate. Degree/National Diploma ultrasound or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with South African Nursing Council
(HPCSA) as a Ultrasound Sonographer. Current registration with HPCSA for
2025/2026 as sonographer. Experience: Grade 1: No experience after
registration with the Health Profession council of South Africa. (HPCSA) as an
ultrasound Sonographer in respect of RSA qualified employee who performed
community service as required in south Africa. 1-year relevant experience after
registration with HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees. Experience:
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience after
registration with HPCSA as an ultrasound sonographer in respect of RSA
qualified employees who performed community service. 11 years’ experience
after registration with HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees.
Experience: Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable
experience after registration with HPCSA as an Ultrasound Sonographer in
respect of RSA qualified employees who performed community service. 21
years’ experience after registration with HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform community service as required
in south Africa. Knowledge And Skills: training and competencies required for
the post: sound knowledge of obstetrics and gynaecology ultrasound
procedures. Knowledge of general ultrasound scans. Sound knowledge of
ultrasound procedures. Knowledge of relevant health and safety policies,
regulations and acts. Sound report writing and administrative skills. Knowledge
of quality assurance procedure and methods. Sound communication,
interpersonal relations and ability to perform with a team computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide high quality ultrasound services consistent with scope of practice and
patient’s needs. To promote good health practices and ensure optimal patient
care. Execute all ultrasound procedure completely to prevent complication.
Provide general administrative duties as required. Provide guidance and
supervision to junior staff. Participate in institutional radiographic policy making
and planning for service delivery. Promote Batho Pele principle in the execution
of all duties for effective service delivery. Give factual information to patients
and clients on ultrasound examination. Participate in departmental core
71
standards. Inspect and utilize equipment professionally to ensure that
sonographic services comply with the required prescripts. Participate in
ultrasound quality assurance. programmes. Participate in continued
professional development (CPD programmes. Compile report and memos as
required in the working environment. Assist with ultrasound patient booking.
Perform other duties as per delegation by radiography management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/93 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1-3 (REF NO: H/C/1/2025
SALARY : Grade :1 R491 256 – R559 512.per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 - R657 507.per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 -R707 625.per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate., plus B-tech Degree in Clinical Technology or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with South African Nursing Council
(HPCSA) as a Clinical Technologist. Current registration with for
2025/2026.Experience Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in the
relevant profession as a Clinical Technologist in respect of South African
qualified employees who performed Community Service, as required in South
Africa. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Clinical Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as a Clinical Technologist in respect of South African qualified employees who
performed Community Service, as required in South Africa. Minimum of 11
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the as a Clinical
Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Clinical Technologist in respect of South African qualified employees who
performed Community Service, as required in South Africa. Minimum of 21
years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Knowledge And Skills: Good interpersonal and communication skills, problem
solving abilities, work well under pressure, ability to work independently and in
a team.
DUTIES : Set up, pre-test: maintenance and troubleshooting of mechanical ventilators
and cardiac output machine. Able to perform continuous dialysis for critically ill
patients with acute kidney injury. Ensure safe and effective use of electro
physiological equipment used in ICU. Troubleshooting of electro physiological
equipment to other healthcare professionals. Will be required to work after
hours, weekends and holiday. Perform hemodynamic studies. Assist with
cardio version in ICU. Assist with transport of the critically ill patients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POSTV36/94 : CHIEF ARTISAN (ELECTRICAL / MECHANICAL) GRADE A-B: REF NO:
H/C/2/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 – R547 635.per annum
Grade B: R578 712 - R769 920. per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification, Senior Certificate, plus National Diploma in
Electrical Engineering in accordance with the standards recognized by the
National Skills Authority in terms of action 28 of the Manpower Training
Act:1981. Appropriate Trade Test Certificate: Electrical. Experience:10 years,
appropriate post qualification experience as an Artisan Foreman. Appropriate
practical experience in Electrical field environment. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid driver’s license. Willing to perform standby duties when
necessary and attend to emergency breakdowns after hours. Competencies
(knowledge/Skills): Be conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge And Skills: Appropriate
72
knowledge to supervise the electrical division. Computer literacy in Microsoft
Word; Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet. Knowledge of the Public
Financial Management Act.
DUTIES : Responsible for the training, development and supervision of junior staff and
assist with staff evaluation. Control over maintenance and repairs to the plant,
hospital services and equipment, autoclaves and steam reticulation plant.
Attend to emergencies including after-hour repairs and standby duties. Assist
in project management and the compilation of minor specifications. Budgeting
and expenditure control in respect of the technical services department.
Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Artisans and
associates in field. Ensure the promotion of safety in the line with statutory and
regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manual,
standard drawings and procedure to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance in line with specifications and conduct maintenance of all
buildings. Preform minor construction work in all civil structures. Maintain good
housekeeping and ensure machinery in the workshop/store in maintained in
good working order. Preparation and compilation of materials list. Manage
equipment, tools and machinery used. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs of the technical operational plan. Manage key
performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
Research literature studies on technical and engineering technology to
improve expertise. Liaise with relevant stakeholders i.e. ESKOM and local
municipalities and service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POSTV37/95 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A-B (ELECTRICAL / BUILDING / CIVIL /
PLUMBING / MECHANICAL) REF NO: H/A/3/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 – R433 176.per annum
Grade B: R453 609 - R571 089.per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant Trade Test Certificate. (A complete apprenticeship or certificate
issued under the provisions of Section 28 and 30 of the Manpower Training
Act, 1981 as amended, or a certificate issued under the provisions of the
repealed Section 27 of the Act referred to. Knowledge of the Health and Safety
Act, 1993 (Act No. 85 of 1993), 5 years post-qualification experience as an
Artisan. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Computer literacy in
Microsoft Word; Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet. Knowledge of the
Public Financial Management Act.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standard. Quality assurance of produced objects
and inspect equipment and or facilities for the technical faults. Perform repairs
to equipment and machinery in the facility according to standards. Test and
repair equipment and machinery ensure that they are functional according to
norms and standards. Service equipment and machinery in the facility
according to service plan schedule. Quality assurance serviced and maintain
and repair faults. Prepare specifications and open files for procurement of
services as required on equipment, machinery and procurement of material
and consumables. Compile and submit reports required. Provide inputs to the
operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and
regulations. Supervise and mentor staff. Resource planning and scheduling of
works. Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies
and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical/engineering
technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/96 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (ELECTRICAL / BUILDING / CIVIL /
PLUMBING / CARPENTRY / PAINTING REF NO: H/A/4/2025 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 – R433 176.per annum
Grade B: R453 609 - R571 089 per annum, (all-inclusive package - OSD)
73
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : A completed Apprenticeship and passed Trade Test in terms of Provisions of
Section 13(2)(h) of the Manpower Training Act of 1981, as amended or a
Certificate issued under the Provision of Repealed Section 27 of the same Act.
A valid drivers license Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the Occupational
Health & Safety Act, 1993 (Act No. 85 of 1993) (OHS Act). Computer literate.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of produced objects
and inspect equipment and or facility for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facility defects according to standards. Test and repair equipment and
machinery in the facility in terms of the specifications. Service equipment and
machinery in the facility according to maintenance plan schedule. Quality
assures serviced and maintained equipment in the facility. Compile and submit
reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Keep and maintain job
records/register, supervise and mentor staff. Continuous individual
development to keep up new technologies and procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital Email:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/97 : SUPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: REF NO: H/S/1/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate PLUS National Diploma/ degree in Financial Management. A
minimum of 5-7 experience in Supply Chain Management. Valid driver’s
license. Knowledge And Skills Knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA, SCM guidelines,
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Framework Act and B-BBEE Act.
Computer Literacy in Microsoft Office Software applications)
DUTIES : Oversee and render proper management of Demand, Acquisition, Logistics
and warehouse, assets and contract management. Ensure that acquisition of
goods, service quotations, tender and adjudication activities are in accordance
with the institutional business and procurement plan and in accordance with
SCM policies and delegations. Co-ordinate and compile the procurement
planning process and compliance to SCM policies. Ensure effective, efficient
and economical management of allocated resources of the division. Manage
and evaluate Performance Management and Development System in the unit.
Ensure compliance with Department SCM Policy Framework, Practice Notes
and Treasury Regulations and SOP’S. Conduct internal audit and risk
management within all areas of responsibility within SCM and compliance with
department policies and guidelines. Supervise, train and develop personnel in
line with relevant HR prescripts/regulations and segregate duties in order to
improve service delivery and efficiency. Provide guidance with the analysis of
the trends of the demands for goods and services in the facility. Provide
guidance and assistance to the end users with the development of
specifications for goods & services. Ensure relevant DCM committees are in
place’s-ordinate in-service training in order to promote service delivery. Ensure
all monthly returns are submitted timeously for all SCM sections under your
supervision. Ensure that there are no stock out stocking is done timeously &
sent to Head Office. Assist end user with the compilation of Demand
Management Plans and Procurement Plans. Prepare management
information, reports, statistics, and reporting on procurement to management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital Email:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/98 : SECURITY OFFICER MANAGER: REF NO: H/S/2/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Security
Management/ Security Risk Management/Policing with 1-2 years’ experience
in security management. Registration with PSIRA as a Security Officer Grade:
B. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the access
control procedures, Knowledge of measures of control and movement of
equipment & stores. Prescribes security procedures e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection
74
of Information Act, Emergency Procedures. Computer skills. Communication
skills. Knowledge of the relevant Public Service Regulation, access control,
security regulations and procedures. Able to write, read and communicate at
least two of the official languages applicable in the Free state. Knowledge of
CCTV surveillance and control room practice. Physically fit. Willingness to work
long hours and available on 24 hours. Ability to write reports.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor access control to the buildings: Define services that the
visitors require, ensure that visitors are referred to the relevant service delivery
point. Check completeness of admission control registers. Provide admission
control documents/cards as required, ensure that visitors are escorted to
relevant employees/venues. Ensure that unauthorized person and dangerous
objects do not enter the building/premises. Report breaches and follow-up on
incidents. Manage undertaking of building/premises patrols. Ensure that all
entrances are locked and unlocked, check water leaks and that taps are
closed, Identify and check fire hazards, exposed electricity contacts and other
fire hazards. Check that lights are switched on and off as required. Check and
report suspicious objects and packages. Monitor application of emergency
procedures. Ensure maintenance and safe keeping of equipment, documents
and stores of the Department. Check completeness of registers to control the
movement of equipment, stores and documents that leave the
building/premises unauthorized. Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the
premises. Analyse gathered information or reports on missing and stolen
equipment and stores. Manage handling of documents at points of entry
according to classification and the applicable prescripts. Ensure maintenance
and safe records keeping of registers. Check and verify all recorded incidents
in the occurrence book/register. Check and verify all submitted weekly, monthly
registers. Facilitation of procurement for security service. Check verify
accuracy of work orders, time sheets and invoices Manage personnel i.e.
leave, overtime etc., maintain discipline and ensure that Security Officers wear
uniform at all times.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 37/99 : SECURITY OFFICER SUPERVISOR REF NO: H/S/3/2025 (4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950.per annum
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, 5 years relevant experience in a security environment;
registration with PSIRA as a Security Officer Grade Driver’s license will serve
as an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the access
control procedures. Knowledge of measures of control and movement of
equipment & stores, Prescribes security procedure e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection
of information Act, Emergency Procedure, Stakeholders Engagement,
Financial Management. Policy implementation, People Management,
Customer and quality management. Problem solving Skills, Strategic,
Capability and leadership, self-leadership. Communications Skills, Computers
Skills, Planning and Organizing, Skills Programme and Project management,
Negotiation and Presentation Skills. Knowledge of the relevant Public Service
Regulation, access control, security regulations and procedures. Able to write,
read and communicate at least two of the official languages applicable in the
Free state. Knowledge of CCTV surveillance and control room practice.
Physically fit. Willingness to work long hours and available on 24 hours. Ability
to write reports.
DUTIES : Manage the security services including the CCTV surveillance in the hospital.
Manage of leave for the unit / shift. Compile shift roosters and shifts schedules.
Monitor the performance of security officials and determine the training needs.
Allocate the duties to the security officials and maintain discipline. Identify risks
and threats to the security of the hospital. Ensure effective patrolling of the
building, parking arears and the perimeter. Conduct preliminary investigations
on all reported incidents of security breaches. Gather information through
interviews and obtaining physical evidence. Liaise constantly with the Security
Manager of the department and the South African Police Services around
issues of concern relating to the security of the medical depot. Monthly
submission of reports. Perform access control functions. Determine
appointments / or services that visitors require, contact relevant employee to
confirm appointment. Complete or ensure that the admission control register is
75
completed. Escort / visitors to relevant employees / venues. Lock and unlock
entrances. Ensure that unauthorized persons and dangerous objects do not
enter the building. Identify and check fire hazards exposed electrical contacts
and other fire hazards, check lights, switch on and off as required. Check
suspicious objects and packages and report. Apply emergency procedure.
Ensure safe keeping of equipment, documents and stores of the department.
Confirm that no equipment, stores and assets of the department leave the
building / premises unauthorized. Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the
premises. Receive time sheets in line with posting procedures. Submit time
sheets to the Security Manager for payment and processing of overtime / night
shift / Sunday allowances. Record all incidents in the occurrence book /
register. Maintenance and safe keeping of registers weekly, monthly to the
relevant person. Issue admission control documents / cards as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Human Resource Management: Bongani Regional Hospital e-mail:
TsohoTP@fshealth.gov.za Phone number: 057 - 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications For The Department Of Public Works And Infrastructure To Be
Submitted To: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, P.O Box 7551,
Bloemfontein 9300 or Applications that are hand delivered must be brought to
the Foyer of O.R Tambo House where they must be placed in the appropriately
marked box at: Security Ground Floor, O.R Tambo House, St. Andrews Street,
Bloemfontein. No Applications Will Be Accepted by Staff in offices in the
Building.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted i.e. all the documentation must be submitted for each post applied
for. Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply
with these instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the
relevant person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Short-listed
candidates will on the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed
appropriate and inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and
previous employment verification. If you have not been contacted within 4
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Faxed or late applications will NOT be accepted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: PWI 25/33
Directorate: Legal Services and Labour Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum.(Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Labour Law/Labour Relations or
equivalent. 3 – 4 years’ experience in supervisory level. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of persons with disabilities. Competencies: Labour relations
legislation, Processes of labour relation matters, General working conditions
76
within the Public Service. Knowledge of the Public Service, Processes of the
CCMA, PSCBC, GPSSBC. Interpretation of Policies and Collective Agreement.
Computer literacy. Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills. Conflict
resolution skills. Analytical skills. Interpretation skills. Training skills.
Presentation skills. Negotiation skills. Organising skills. Interpersonal
relationship skills. This competency is guided by the Code of Conduct and
Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : To assist with the development of labour relation policies. To coordinate/
conduct investigation on misconduct and grievance cases and advise
appropriately thereon. To advise Management on all labour relations matters
in order to minimize unfair labour practices. To represent the Department in
bilateral discussions with organized labour unions. To perform and manage
administrative and related functions. To manage resources. To ensure that the
objectives of the component are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. MJN Phaladi – Tel number: 051 492 3813
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: e-
recruitmentfspwi02@fsworks.gov.za
POST 37/101 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: DEBT AND LOSS CONTROL REF NO: PWI 25/34
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : B Com: Accounting or equivalent NQF level 7 in Finance. 3 – 4 years post
qualification experience in the field. Competencies: Facilitation skills.
Leadership skills. Report writing skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving skills.
Computer skills (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook). Ability to work as
part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : To supervise the implementation and maintenance of financial management
practices concerning financial administration processes:- Compile
correspondence to the State Attorney’s, debtors, officials in the department,
other departments and public entities. Ensure the correct compilation of
submissions for the recovery/writing-off of debt and management of fruitless
and wasteful, and irregular cases by the Accounting Officer (or delegate). To
address financial management enquiries to ensure the correct implementation
of financial management practices:- Verify and authorise sundry payments,
debt agreement and journals transactions on BAS. Compile, analyse and
balance financial information in terms of policy. To verify/approve transactions
on LOGIS/BAS/PERSAL according to delegations. Reconcile debt and loss
transactions on Excel spreadsheet according to BAS reports/accounts. To
supervise human resources/staff:- Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Gouws – Tel number: 051 492 3799
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: e-
recruitmentfspwi02@fsworks.gov.za
POST 37/102 : SECRETARY: DIRECTOR RESEARCH REF NO: PWI 25/35
SALARY : R228 321.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate NQF level 4 but preferably
a Post Matric Qualification. Competency: Secretarial and typing experience.
Knowledge of Telephonic etiquette. Records Management and Office
administration. Language skills and the ability to communicate well with people
at different levels. High level of reliability. Basic written communication skills.
Computer literacy. Sound organizing skills. Good people skills. Ability to act
with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation.
DUTIES : Receives telephone calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not
meant for the Director. In the process the jobholder should finalise some
enquiries. Records the engagements of the Director. Compile realistic
schedules of appointments. Types documents for the Director and other staff
within the unit. Operates and ensures that the office equipment, e.g
photocopier and shredding machine are in good working order. Provide a
clerical support to the Director. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Checks the arrangements when the relevant documents are
received. Arranges meetings and events for the Director and the staff in the
unit. Identifies venues, invite role players, organises refreshments and sets up
77
schedules for meetings and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the Director
where required. Drafts routine correspondence and reports. Does filing of
documents for the Director and the unit where required. Administers matters
like the leave registers and telephone accounts. Receives, records and
distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments, etc. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the Manager to prepare for meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Menye – Tel number: 051 492 1747
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: e-
recruitmentfspwi01@fsworks.gov.za
POST 37/103 : SUPERVISOR: CLEANING SERVICES
Directorate Operational Property and Housekeeping
SALARY : R193 359.per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Motheo/Xhariep Ref No: PWI 25/36 (3 Posts)
Thabo Mofutsanyane: Ref No: PWI 25/37 (3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF level 4 qualification / ABET. 2 years’ experience in the
cleaning services environment. Competencies: Basic numeracy and Literacy.
Good interpersonal and communications skills, must be able to handle
confidential information. Experience and knowledge of various cleaning
consumables and operation of cleaning equipment. Knowledge of health and
safety requirements and understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly.
DUTIES : To oversee cleaning services of offices, corridors, general kitchens, restrooms
and bathrooms. To develop and update the cleaning roster. Provide guidance
and advice to cleaners in terms of the cleaning services. Perform administrative
and related functions. To manage and ensure the maintenance of cleaning
materials and equipment. Ensure maintenance and replacement of cleaning
machines and equipment. Ensure proper utilization of equipment and cleaning
material, by providing training in correct procedures. Make a requisition for
cleaning materials and issue them. To supervise human resources/staff,
Allocate and ensure quality of work, Personnel development. Assess staff
performance and apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Magashule – Tel number: 051 492 7542/7523
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: e-
recruitmentfspwi01@fsworks.gov.za
POST 37/104 : CLEANER
Directorate Operational Property and Housekeeping
SALARY : R138 486.per annum. (Level 02)
CENTRE : Motheo/Xhariep Ref No: PWI 25/38 (20 Posts)
Thabo Mofutsanyane: Ref No: PWI 25/39
Fezile Dabi X3 Posts: Ref No: PWI 25/40
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF level 2 qualification / ABET. Competency: Basic numeracy
and Literacy. Good interpersonal and communications skills, must be able to
handle confidential information. Knowledge of various cleaning consumables
and operation of cleaning equipment. Basic knowledge of health and safety
requirements and understanding of applying or using chemicals correctly.
DUTIES : To ensure general cleanliness of the offices, corridors, elevators and
boardrooms by dusting and waxing of office furniture, sweeping, scrubbing and
waxing floors. To ensure that waste items are removed inside and outside the
buildings on a daily basis. Attend to other related cleaning duties as may be
allocated by supervisor. Perform cleaning services of a routine nature by
utilizing a variety of aids (dusters, brooms, vacuum cleaners, polishers etc.) to
ensure a high level of hygiene in the offices. Empty dustbins. Wash crockery
and cutlery of Component and officials. Dust furniture in offices. Vacuum
carpets. Sweep offices. Polish furniture. Sweep corridors and vacant offices.
Wash windows/walls. Clean and keep toilets tidy. Replace toilet rolls and soap,
hand towels and refreshers. Empty and wash waste bins. Report broken
cleaning machines (microwaves, vacuum cleaners, etc.) and equipment after
use.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Magashule – Tel number: 051 492 7542/7523
78
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: e-
recruitmentfspwi@fsworks.gov.za
79
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Kindly note that No payment of any kind is required when applying for posts
advertised by the Gauteng Department of Health. The Department reserves
the right not to fill any advertised posts. Applications should be submitted
strictly online at the following E-Recruitment portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za.
No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed applications will be accepted. For
assistance with online applications, please email your query to
healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 37/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FINANCIAL REPORTING: REFS/023428
Directorate: Financial Reporting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (level 9) plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Financial Accounting or Finance with at least 5 years of proven relevant
experience in the field of financial management with emphasis on financial
reporting. Communication: Good verbal and written communication skills;
Creativity: Pro-active, Innovative thinker and must be able to work under
pressure. Project management skills and being in possession of a valid driver’s
licence will be added advantages. Knowledge: Computer Literacy with
emphasis on MS Office, and in particular, MS Excel Data Analytics, BAS, and
PERSAL Skills: Accounting and Financial management, High numerical skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate, reporting to the Manager: Financial reporting, will
be responsible for the preparation of monthly, interim and annual Generally
Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) compliant financial statements as
well as monthly management accounts. Maintain properly reconciled accounts
up-to-the general ledger in the entity’s books to support amounts disclosed in
the financial statements. Assist with the provision of relevant information to the
entity’s internal and external oversight bodies such as the provincial treasury
and the audit committee as well as to both internal and external auditors. Must
apply sound knowledge of GRAP standards, the Public Finance Management
80
Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Treasury Instructions as well as the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), among other things.
Make effective use of MS Excel's data analytics to add value to the entity’s
financial reporting requirements in a manner that is efficient and effective.
Knowledge about innovative inventory management techniques will be the
applicant’s added advantage. Ability to supervise staff and manage risks and
projects and prepare presentations to the entity’s management and other
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K.M Kasumba, Tel No: (011) 628-9141
81
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : please note that applicants should only use one of the following methods when
applying for a post: either through the online e-recruitment system, emailing
the z83 and cv directly to the relevant department, or submitting a hardcopy
application as directed below. Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to The Director: Human Resource
Management Department of Economic Development, Tourism and
Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152, PIETERMARITZBURG, 3200, for
attention Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa. Alternatively,
applications can be delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu Ndlovu Street,
Pietermaritzburg, 3201, in the vacancy box provided. Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system
at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za. Applicants may also visit
any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our
friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy
application.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and
time will not be considered.
NOTE : Directions to candidates. The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and women and people with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. The Department of Economic
Development, Tourism, and Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer, and preference will be given to suitably qualified
candidates from designated groups in terms of the Employment Equity Act,
1998. The Department reserves the right not to make these appointments. All
information submitted will be treated as confidential. The Department reserves
the right to withhold the filling of the abovementioned posts at any time before
an appointment. All applications must be submitted on the new Application for
Employment form (Z83), which became effective from the 1st of January 2021,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The form must be completed in full, and the
application form should be initiated, signed and dated. All required information
on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information
will automatically disqualify the applicant. The completed and signed Z83 must
be accompanied by an updated, detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of
starting and leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview, following communication from Human Resources. Should an
applicant have a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications submitted electronically
will be taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented
in any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates may be required to undergo a competency test. “You
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” Candidates are discouraged from sending
their applications through registered mail as the Department will not take
responsibility for the non-collection of those applications. Please note that
reference checks and/or confirmation of employment will be done with the
current employer and candidates are advised to include references from the
current employment to facilitate this. The filling of these posts will be guided by
the Department’s Employment Equity targets. Preferences: Administrative
Officer post, African Male, Coloured Male and Indian Male as well as people
with disabilities who meet the requirements. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel and
subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes. NB: this post is being re-
advertised, candidates who applied previously may re-reapply. all the
appointments will be made in accordance with the employment equity targets
82
of the department, which is African male, Coloured male, and Indian male.
people with disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to apply.
this post is only open to people residing in KwaZulu-Natal
OTHER POST
POST 37/106 : SCM PRACTITIONER: ASSET MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL REF NO:
SCM PRAC: ASSET MNGT 01/SEPT 2025 (X 2 POSTS)
Business Unit: Asset Management
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma or Degree in Financial
Management/Accounting/Cost and Management Accounting at NQF level 6/7
as recognized by SAQA coupled with 2 – 3 years’ experience in the field of
Asset Management and Disposal services A valid driver’s License.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide physical verification of assets in the
department; Administer and maintain register on asset related issue orders;
Administer monthly reconciliations of BAS to the Fixed Asset Register and to
AFS (Annual Financial Statement); Maintain Asset Disposal Process, ensure
HardCat system is timeously updated and all HardCat forms are accurately
captured; and Supervision of staff Skills, Training And Competencies: The
successful candidate must have a good working knowledge of Public Financial
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Asset Management Framework,
Provincial Supply Chain Management Regulations and Practice Notes, Public
Services Act and Regulations, Modified Cash based Standers (MCS), GRAP’S
(General Recognized Accounting Practices), HardCat Management System
and BAS. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Frameworks such as
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and regulations, Broad-Based
Black Economic Empowerment Act (BBBEE). Knowledge and understanding
of the regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g. Labour Relations Act,
Constitution of South Africa, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Skills Development Act, Service Delivery Frameworks (Batho Pele Principles),
Community Development Act, policies and strategies. Ability to communicate
at all levels with relevant stakeholders. Skills: Communication skills (verbal and
written), Computer Literacy (MS Word and Spreadsheets), Strong Analytical
skills, Report Writing and Presentation skills, Planning and Organizing skills,
Report writing and Presentation skills, Project Management skills, Good
Interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, good listening skills, numeric skills,
negotiation skills, research. Attributes: Team work, Integrity, honesty and
trustworthy, patience, commitment, punctual and professionalism.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Z Makhathini: Assistant Director: Asset Management: Tel No: 066 357 8256
83
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : The applications should be submitted on the website: www.ldoh.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : NB: Ensure that you read the conditions and requirements of the post Before
you apply. Failure to comply with the instructions below, will result in your
application to be disqualified. By applying it is taken that you agree to the
conditions and requirements of the post. Applicants are hereby invited from
suitable qualified candidates for vacant posts in the Department of Health.
Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants should complete
separate applications where more than one centre is applied for: The new Z83
form must be fully completed and signed by the applicant. The following must
be considered in relation to the completion of Z83 by applicants: All the fields
in Part A, Part C and Part D must be completed. In Part B, all fields should be
completed in full except the following: South African applicants need not
provide passport numbers. If an applicant responded “No” to the question “Are
you conducting business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or
Private company conducting business with the State? then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate ‘not applicable’ or leave blank to the question. If yes
(provide detail), “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will
you immediately relinquish such business interest?”. Applicants may leave the
following question blank if they are not in possession of such: “If your
profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F
& G, applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV)” or “see attached”,
this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the
required information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the applicant
may be disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the
application for employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the
information that is provided therein. The questions related to conditions that
prevent reappointment under Part F must be answered. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to come for an interview, at which time, certified copies of all
relevant qualifications, current registration with the relevant statutory body,
valid driver’s licence and copy of ID must be submitted. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One shall be a
practical exercise, and the other shall be an Integrity [Ethical Conduct], an
Assessment as per Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024. The successful candidates will be subjected to security clearance
[Vetting] as per the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024. The Department of Health is an equal opportunity Employment Equity
and Affirmative Action Employer. Females are encouraged to apply for posts at
Senior Management in order to address the Employment Equity targets within
the Department. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates only.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the large
number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard from
us within thirty (30) days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within (30) days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. Applicants responding to this circular should quote on the Z83 form,
Circular Number and post number as the reference number. Kindly note that
NO payment of any kind is required when applying for posts advertised in this
circular. The Department reserves the right not to fill any advertised posts. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department. NB 1: Note: The circular of advertised vacant posts will be posted
on the following websites: www.ldoh.gov.za, www.dpsa.gov.za and Provincial
Department social media.
84
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/107 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE AND TECHNICAL
SUPPORT (1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. (Level 13) (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
successful applicant must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the
province and work longer hours)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Civil/Structural or
Mechanical / Electrical Engineering at NQF level 7 as recognized by South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Five (5) years’ middle/senior
managerial level experience in infrastructure maintenance. Training
programmes undertaken and successfully completed in Project Management
or Health Facilities Management; or Maintenance Management. Plus,
experience in health engineering and health infrastructure maintenance or a
similar complex environment will be an added advantage. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. Valid driver’s license (Code
08). The successful applicant must be prepared to travel extensively
throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: The incumbent of
this post will report to the Chief Director: Infrastructure Development and
Technical Support Services and will be responsible for the provision of the
effective and efficient management of the maintenance of the entire spectrum
of Health Facilities, other infrastructure and the related technical support
services that sustain an enabling environment for healthcare delivery in a cost-
effective manner. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
The ideal candidate must have: the ability to understand and apply the
Provincial IDMS, guide and operate within all applicable legislation, policies,
frameworks and instruction notes. the ability to understand the health services
plan of the Department and specifically the requirements for maintenance,
engineering and related support services and provide support to the chief
directorate and health facilities. The ability to understand and apply
international and national engineering, municipal waste management, the
occupational health and safety standards. The ability to understand and
interpret specifications for engineering & technical services and application of
knowledge for procurement processes. The ability to plan and manage a
diverse portfolio of projects and programmes. The ability to undertake a risk
analysis and undertake a risk mitigation strategy. The ability to prepare reports,
submissions and presentations. the ability to motivate staff, develop
competencies and promote a culture of excellence. The ability to meet strict
project deadlines – preparation of documentation, report writing, chairing and
minute taking of site meetings. Manage people. Manage finances.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Plan, implement and manage the maintenance and
technical support services component of all health facilities and infrastructure.
Manage the provision of professional engineering services and provide support
to the chief directorate and health facilities. Provide oversight management of
maintenance and technical services provided at all health facilities. Manage
the acquisition and deployment of maintenance resources Co-operate and
work collaboratively with the directors, middle managers, professionals,
technical and administrative support staff in the chief directorate in terms of
infrastructure and maintenance planning and delivery, the health care services
community at large in the provincial, district and facility maintenance teams.
Manage healthcare infrastructure risk and quality improvement programmes.
Manage compliance with the provisions of the occupational Health and Safety
Act [OHS] related to equipment and effective municipal waste management.
Set the visionary and strategic direction of the directorate, support and
compliance to the health care service delivery imperative and legal prescripts.
Manage the human, physical and financial resources of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 37/108 : CHIEF CIVIL/STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING SERVICES
(GRADE A-B) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 per annum
85
Grade B: R1 532 466 per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will award a higher salary depending on the expertise of the
applicant)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Civil/Structural
Engineering. Registration as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Minimum of
six (6) years’ experience post qualification. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To provide civil/structural engineering inputs and guidance
which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering applications
for the development of infrastructure policies, systems, projects, norms and
standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). The ideal candidate must guide and operate within all
applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction note. Knowledge,
Skills, Training and Competencies Required: The incumbent of this post will be
responsible for performing and managing all aspects of varied innovative and
complex engineering activities that result in progress in technology and
engineering applications and provide strategic direction in the process. The
ideal candidate must have: Ability to apply the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS). Ability to understand the health services plan of
the Department and specifically the requirements for engineering services.
Ability to undertake engineering design and analyse knowledge. Ability to
understand and interpret specifications for engineering & technical services
and application of knowledge for procurement processes. Ability to plan and
manage a diverse portfolio of projects and programmes. Ability to apply
Computer-aided engineering applications. Ability to undertake a risk analysis
and undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to prepare technical reports,
submissions and presentations. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets,
extract and interpret information from related information systems.
DUITES : Key Performance Areas: Develop and maintain functional and technical norms
and standards from an engineering perspective. Manage condition
assessments and credibility of technical information. Manage adherence to
environmental and occupational health and safety aspects. Investigate
proposals for innovative service delivery mechanisms and undertake feasibility
studies. Compile briefing documentation and specifications from an
engineering perspective. Prepare the User Assets Management Plan. Make
inputs to the Construction Procurement Strategy and the Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan. Conduct post project and post occupancy
evaluations. Develop and review the strategies and policies for health
infrastructure planning. Develop and review the Health Infrastructure Planning
cycle document infrastructure Planning Model. Coordinate Departmental
contributions to the preparation of the Provincial Infrastructure Strategy, Plan
and related Departmental Strategic documents/plans. Load project documents
and update information on the data management system. Mentor and support
a candidate civil engineer. Manage human, physical and financial resources.
Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/109 : CHIEF ENGINEER: MECHANICAL: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-
B) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450.per annum
Grade B: R1 532 466.per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will award a higher salary depending on the expertise of the
applicant)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Mechanical
Engineering. Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Six [6] years’
experience. Experience in a health care environment or an environment of
similar complex will be an added advantage. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
86
hours. Main Role: To perform and manage all aspects of varied innovative and
complex engineering activities that result in progress in technology and
engineering applications and provide strategic direction in the process. The
ideal candidate must have: the ability to understand and apply the Provincial
IDMS, guide and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks
and instruction notes.
DUITES : Key Performance Areas: Undertake engineering designs. Perform final review
and approvals of audits on new engineering designs according to design
principles or theory. Manage the execution of maintenance strategies through
the provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set
engineering maintenance standards, specifications and service levels
according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational
availability. Monitor maintenance efficiencies according to organizational goals
to direct or redirect engineering services for the attainment of organizational
objectives. Provide effective engineering and project management services.
Load project documents and update information on the data management
system. Manage compliance with OHS and related legislation. Undertake
research. Manage people and budgets.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/110 : CHIEF ENGINEER: ELECTRICAL: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-
B) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450.per annum
Grade B: R1 532 466.per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will award a higher salary depending on the expertise of the
applicant)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Electrical
Engineering. Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Six (6) years’
experience. Experience in a health care environment or an environment of
similar complex will be an added advantage. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicants
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To provide electrical engineering inputs and guidance which
include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering applications for the
development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, norms, standards
and signing off on electrical installations. The ideal candidate must have: the
ability to understand and apply the Provincial IDMS, guide and operate within
all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction notes.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: - The incumbents of
these posts will be responsible for performing and managing all aspects of
varied innovative and complex engineering activities that result in progress in
technology and engineering applications and provide strategic direction in the
process. The ideal candidate must have: - Ability to apply the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Ability to understand the
health services plan of the Department and specifically the requirements for
engineering services. Ability to undertake engineering design and analyse
knowledge. Ability to understand and interpret specifications for engineering &
technical services and application of knowledge for procurement processes.
Ability to plan and manage a diverse portfolio of projects and programmes.
Ability to apply Computer-aided engineering applications. Ability to undertake
a risk analysis and undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to prepare
technical reports, submissions and presentations. Ability to understand how to
prepare budgets, extract and interpret information from related information
systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Undertake electrical engineering designs. Perform
final review and manage the approval of audits on new electrical engineering
designs according to design principles or theory. Manage the execution of
maintenance strategies through the provision of appropriate structures,
systems and resources. Set engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
87
the attainment of organizational objectives. Provide effective engineering and
project management services. Manage compliance with OHS and related
legislation. Load project documents and update information on the data
management system. Undertake research. Manage people and budgets.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/111 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-)(1
POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488.per annum
Grade B: R1 323 267.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will award a higher salary depending on the expertise of the
applicant)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Quantity
Surveying. Registration as a Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. Six
(6) years’ experience post qualification. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To manage the delivery of the infrastructure-built
environment programmes and projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Framework (IDMS). The ideal candidate must have the ability to guide
and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and
instruction notes. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
The incumbents of the post will be responsible for providing quantity surveying
inputs and guidance for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies,
systems, functional/technical norms and standards, plans for health in line with
the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Framework for the planning and
construction of health projects. The ideal candidates must have: - Ability to
understand the health service delivery platform, indicators & service plan and
how that links with infrastructure. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and
undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to interpret existing and develop
new Functional and Technical Norms and Standards. Ability to identify the
required information fields and documents for use by Health. Ability to prepare
reports, submissions and presentations. Have the ability to meet strict project
deadlines – preparation of documentation, report writing, chairing and minute
taking of site meetings. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract
and interpret information from related information systems. Ability to
understand how to apply the IDMS. Ability to understand how to identify the
required information fields and documents for use by health.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Prepare the construction procurement strategy and
the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Contribute from a quantity
surveying perspective project brief, costing models and operational narratives.
Prepare quantity surveyor inputs for the User Asset Management Plan, the
project list and Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or
manage the approval of packages/individual project briefs. Develop and
maintain quantity survey planning and costs norms & standards. Participate in
the procurement of professional service providers and contractors. Prepare
policies, strategies, plans, procedures and criteria for all infrastructure projects
from a quantity surveying perspective. Contribute to the review and acceptance
of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the
implementation of Programmes/Projects. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Manage the approval of project
stage reports & designs. Manage the interface between the end-
user/community structures and Implementing Agent[s]. Undertake research.
Mentor and support a candidate quantity surveyor. Manage human, physical
and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/112 : CHIEF ARCHITECT: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-B) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488.per annum
88
Grade B: R1 323 267.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will award a higher salary depending on the expertise of the
applicant)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Architecture.
Registration with the SACAP as a Professional Architect. Six (6) years’
experience post qualification. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of
the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint;
Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant must be prepared
to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role:
To manage the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and
projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System
(IDMS). The ideal candidate must have the ability to guide and operate within
all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction notes.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: The incumbent of this
post will be responsible to provide the architectural inputs and guidance for the
development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, functional/technical
norms and standards which includes form and space designs in line with the
Infrastructure Delivery Management Framework (IDMS). The ideal candidates
must have. Ability to understand how to apply the IDMS. Ability to understand
how to prepare budgets, extract and interpret information from related
information systems. Ability to understand the health service delivery platform,
indicators & service plan and how that links with infrastructure. Ability to
understand how to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a risk mitigation
strategy. Ability to specify low maintenance building options. Ability to
understand how to interpret existing/ customize functional and technical norms
and standards. Ability to understand how to identify the required information
fields and documents for use by Health. Ability to understand how to prepare
reports, submissions and presentations. Possess management experience in
design and delivery of infrastructure programmes for Health.
DUITES : Key Performance Areas: Prepare the construction procurement strategy and
the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or manage
approval of packages/individual project briefs. Participate in the procurement
of professional service providers and contractors. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the
implementation of Programmes/Projects. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Manage the approval of project
briefs, project stage reports and designs. Manage the interface between the
end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent[s]. Mentor and
support a candidate architect. Manage human, physical and financial
resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 37/113 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROJECTS -INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY AND
WORK INSPECTION (4 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Engineering.
Experience in health care infrastructure or similar complex environment. Three
(3) years’ experience post qualification or a National Diploma / Diploma in
engineering with proven completion of practical experience plus at least Six (6)
years’ experience in a health infrastructure environment or similar complex
environment. For all applicants, a certificate in any of the following fields will be
an added advantage: project management, facility management, health facility
planning, environmental management, maintenance management, infection
control or health and safety Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms
literacy. Valid driver’s license (Code 08). The successful applicants must be
prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer hours.
Main Role: To manage the delivery of the health infrastructure programmes
and projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. The ideal candidate must guide
and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and
instruction note. Knowledge and Skills: Proven experience in managing
complex projects, including planning, execution, and monitoring. Strong
leadership skills, with the ability to motivate and guide project teams. Excellent
89
written and verbal communication skills, with the ability to effectively
communicate with diverse stakeholders. Ability to analyze complex situations,
identify problems, and develop effective solutions. Understanding of financial
principles and the ability to manage project budgets. Familiarity with project
management software and tools. Good communication, report writing,
facilitation, co-ordination and analytical skills.
DUITES : Key Performance Areas: Make inputs in the preparation of the construction
procurement strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan.
Prepare packages/individual project briefs. Make inputs to different projects
stage reports & designs Contribute to the review and acceptance of the
Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the implementation of
programmes/projects. Develop and implement project plans, timelines, and
budgets, ensuring projects are delivered on time and within scope. Prepare
and manage procurement, commissioning, decommissioning and training
plans for the allocated projects. Identify and mitigate potential risks associated
with projects, minimizing potential negative impacts. Ensure that project
deliverables meet established quality standards and requirements. Assist to
manage the interface between the end-user/community structures and
Implementing Agent[s]. Collaborate with the Maintenance and Engineering
Services in the execution of projects. Communicate project status and updates
to stakeholders, both internal and external. Contribute to the development and
implementation of project management methodologies and best practices.
Provide input into the performance appraisals of project team members.
Manage project budgets and expenditures, ensuring responsible financial
oversight. Load project documents and update information on the data
management system. Manage human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 37/114 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HEALTH FACILITY PLANNING: INFRASTRUCTURE
PLANNING AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (1 POST)
SALARY : R896 436.per annum. (Level 11) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in any of the Health
Sciences OR Degree / Diploma in Nursing OR Degree in a related medical
field. Registration with the Statutory Council (Health). Experience in clinical
services or clinical management related to health / clinical facility planning
Minimum Five (5) years post qualification experience. A valid drivers’ license.
Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook,
Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful
applicant must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and
work longer hours. Main Role: To provide health facilities planning support and
expert health clinical design guidance for the preparation of business cases
and health / clinical Briefs; to ensure that clinical and organisational systems
requirements on health facility infrastructure projects are well addressed at
planning, design and implementation stage. Knowledge, Skills, Training And
Competencies Required: Experience in determining policies, systems and
standards for health services, health / clinical proposals, business cases and
interpretation of building plans. Interpret existing/customize functional and
technical norms and standards. Background in service delivery, turn-around
and change management strategy. Good communication, report writing,
facilitation, co-ordination and analytical skills. Ability to direct inputs and provide
guidance for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
functional clinical norms and standards which includes space the health service
levels of care and the entire health service delivery platform. Ability to
understand how to extract and interpret information from related information
systems, indicators & service plan and how that links with infrastructure. Ability
to understand how to prepare reports, submissions and presentations. The
ideal candidate must have: the ability to guide and operate within all applicable
legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction notes.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Compile and or review business cases, health/clinical
briefs, commissioning, de-commissioning and decanting plans accordingly for
capex and maintenance projects. Facilitate, guide assist and support health
end-users in the preparations and review of business cases, health/clinical
briefs inclusive of commissioning, de-commissioning and decanting plans.
90
Support built environment professionals and technical staff and end users with
the development of skills to interpret all the health-related project initiation,
commissioning and decommissioning documents. business cases. Provide
health specific inputs to infrastructure plans, norms and standards during
infrastructure planning, project design, implementation and commissioning.
Undertake physical site inspections and make inputs from a health perspective
to all capex and maintenance projects inclusive of the construction phase.
Ensure that project briefs and operational narratives comply with the domains
that are on the clinical guidelines. Conduct monitoring and oversight in all
projects that start with construction, to ensure that clinical requirements are
done according to the approved design. Facilitate the establishment of
commissioning teams both at provincial, district and facility level. Ensure that
commissioning requirements (including staffing, training, HT, consumables,
organisational development, quality assurance and decanting) are
incorporated in the planning, design, implementation and operationalization of
each project or facility. Collaborate with the Health Services Branches in the
development and approval of business cases, health/clinical briefs inclusive of
commissioning, de-commissioning and decanting plans. Coordinate and
collaborate with the National Department of Health in the peer review and
approval of business cases and health/clinical briefs for projects as outlined in
the Division of Revenue Act (DORA) health facilities revitalization grant
framework. Participate in the peer review process at appropriate project
stages. Load project documents and update information on the data
management system. Undertake research. Manage human, physical and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/115 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROJECTS- HEALTH TECHNOLOGY:
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
SUPPORT (1 POST)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: Degree / Diploma in Nursing OR related
medical field. Registration with the Statutory Council (Health). Experience in
medical equipment or clinical engineering related to the functioning of medical
equipment, the application of health technology and the interface between
medical equipment and patients, including outputs & measurement. Minimum
Five (5) years post qualification experience. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To manage Health technology services projects (new
commissioning) and upgrading in support. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Manage health technology services projects (new
commissioning) and upgrade of services per level of care (ideal hospital & ideal
clinic framework). Background in service delivery, turn-around and change
management strategy. Good communication, report writing, facilitation, co-
ordination and analytical skills. Interpret existing/customize functional and
technical norms and standards. Ability to direct inputs and provide guidance for
the development of health technology systems, functional clinical norms and
standards which include space across the various levels of health care. Ability
to understand how to extract and interpret information from related information
systems, indicators & service plan and how that links with health technology.
Ability to understand how to prepare reports, submissions and presentations.
The ideal candidate must have: the ability to guide and operate within all
applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction notes.
DUITES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct planning & costing for health technology and
related enablers. Interpret and apply approved norms of and standards per
level of care. Supervise, monitor and manage procurement plans, in sourcing
health technology required for infrastructure projects and existing health
facilities. Prepare commissioning plans for installation of medical equipment.
Manage commissioning of medical equipment and enabling items ensuring
functional clinical areas. Manage handover of new installations and training.
Ensure ongoing training in the use and care of medical equipment. Assess
91
existing medical equipment for replacement & condemnation. Participate in the
peer review process at appropriate project stages. Load project documents and
update information on the data management system. Undertake research.
Manage human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/116 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-C) (1
POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342.per annum
Grade B: R990 669.per annum
Grade C: R1 127 100.per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will determine the salary package based on years of experience
post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Mechanical
Engineering. Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Three (3)
years’ experience. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of the job:
Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual
meeting platforms literacy. Main Role: To perform and manage all aspects of
varied innovative and complex engineering activities that result in progress in
technology and engineering applications. The ideal candidate must have the
ability to work in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Framework
(IDMS), guide and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks
and instruction notes. The successful applicant must be prepared to travel
extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competencies Required: The incumbent will be responsible to
provide all mechanical engineering inputs and guidance which include all
aspects of innovative and complex engineering applications for the
development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, projects functional
/ technical norms and standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Management System (IDMS) The ideal candidates must have: Ability
to apply the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS).
Ability to understand the health service delivery platform, indicators & service
plan and how that links with infrastructure. Ability to understand how
acquisitions and disposals are managed in Government. Ability to undertake a
risk analysis and undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to understand
Provincial and Departmental policies on leases and property management.
Ability to understand the infrastructure information fields required for updating
health infrastructure information management systems. Have the ability to
meet strict project deadlines – preparation of documentation, report writing,
chairing and minute taking of site meetings. Ability to understand how to
prepare budgets, extract and interpret information from related information
systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Undertake engineering designs. Perform final review
and approvals of audits on new engineering designs according to design
principles or theory. Implement the maintenance strategy. Set engineering
maintenance standards, specifications and service levels according to
organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor
maintenance efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect
engineering services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Provide
effective engineering and project management services. Load project
documents and update information on the data management system.
Undertake research. Manage human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/117 : ENGINEER CIVIL/STRUCTURAL: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-
C)(1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342.per annum
Grade B: R990 669.per annum
92
Grade C: R1 127 100.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will determine the salary package based on years of experience
post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Civil / Structural
Engineering. Registration as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Minimum
three (3) years’ experience post qualification. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To provide civil/structural engineering inputs and guidance
which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering applications
for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, projects,
functional/technical norms and standards aligned to the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS)Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competencies Required: - The incumbent of the post will be
responsible to provide all civil/structural inputs and guidance which include all
aspects of innovative and complex engineering applications for the
development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, projects
functional/technical norms and standards aligned to the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS) The ideal candidates must
have: - Ability to apply the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). Ability to understand the health service delivery platform,
indicators & service plan and how that links with infrastructure. Ability to
understand how acquisitions and disposals are managed in Government.
Ability to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a risk mitigation strategy.
Ability to understand the infrastructure of information fields required for
updating health infrastructure information management systems. Have the
ability to meet strict project deadlines – preparation of documentation, report
writing, chairing and minute taking offsite meetings. Ability to understand how
to prepare budgets, extract and interpret information from related information
systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Develop and maintain functional and technical norms
and standards from an engineering perspective. Investigate proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies.
Compile civil/structural engineering briefing documentation and specifications.
Provide inputs to the determination of the Construction Procurement Strategy,
the User Asset Management Plan. Investigate civil/structural engineering
installations and oversee commissioning of engineering installations. Load
project documents and update information on the data management system.
Make inputs to the preparation of the User Asset Management Plan. Undertake
research. Manage human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/118 : ARCHITECT: ENGINEERING SERVICES (GRADE A-C) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157.per annum
Grade B: R866 304 per annum
Grade C: R976 029.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package) (The
Department will determine the salary package based on years of experience
post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Degree in Architecture.
Registration with the SACAP as a Professional Architect. Three (3) years’
experience post qualification. A valid drivers’ license Inherent requirements of
the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint;
Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant must be prepared
to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role:
To assist in managing the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS). The ideal candidate must have the ability to
guide and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and
instruction notes. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
The incumbent of this post will be responsible to provide architectural inputs
and guidance for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies,
93
systems, functional/technical norms and standards which includes form and
space designs in line with the Infrastructure Delivery Management Framework
[IDMS]. The ideal candidates must: Have the ability to meet strict project
deadlines – preparation of documentation, report writing, chairing and minute
taking of site meetings. Have the ability to deal with stressful, pressurized and
emergency working conditions. Have the ability to find innovative solutions to
overcome planning problems. Ability to negotiate effectively with service
providers/enforce conditions to ensure compliance with service level
agreements, contracts, prescripts and Departmental norms and standards.
Possess high levels of integrity to ensure that service providers are not “cutting
corners” to improve profit. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract
and interpret information from related information systems. Ability to
understand how to apply the IDMS. Ability to understand how to identify the
required information fields and documents for use by Health.
DUTIES : key performance areas: Prepare the construction procurement strategy and
the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or approve
Packages/Individual Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the
implementation of Programmes/Projects. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Approve Project Stage reports &
designs. Manage the interface between the end-user/community structures
and Implementing Agent[s]. Research. Manage human, physical and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/119 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER CIVIL/STRUCTURAL: INFRASTRUCTURE
DELIVERY AND WORK INSPECTION (1 POST)
(Three Year Contract)
SALARY : R761 157.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Bachelor‘s Degree in
Civil/Structural Engineering. Registered as a Candidate Engineer with ECSA.
A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms
literacy the successful applicant must be prepared to travel extensively
throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: To assist in
managing the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and
projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: The incumbent of this post will work under the Chief
Engineer’s supervision and mentorship and be responsible for performing and
managing all aspects of varied innovative and complex engineering activities
that result in progress in technology and engineering applications and
provide/support strategic direction in the process. The ideal candidate must
have: - Ability to apply the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). Ability to understand the health services plan of the
Department and specifically the requirements for engineering services. Ability
to undertake engineering design and analyse knowledge. Ability to understand
and interpret specifications for engineering & technical services and application
of knowledge for procurement processes. Ability to plan and manage a diverse
portfolio of projects and programmes. Ability to apply Computer-aided
engineering applications. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a
risk mitigation strategy. Ability to prepare technical reports, submissions and
presentations. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract and
interpret information from related information systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist in preparing the construction procurement
strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Assist in
preparing Packages/Individual Project Briefs. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Assist in
monitoring the implementation of Programmes/Projects. Make inputs to
different Project Stage reports & designs. Assist in managing the interface
between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent[s]. Load
project documents and update information on the data management system.
Manage human, physical and financial resources. Undertake research.
94
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/120 : CANDIDATE QUANTITY SURVEYOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY AND
WORK INSPECTION (1 POST)
(Three Year Contract)
SALARY : R660 612.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Bachelor‘s Degree in
Quantity Surveying. Registration as a Candidate Quantity Surveyor with
SACQSP.A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer
literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting
platforms literacy. Successful applicant must be prepared to travel extensively
throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: To assist in
managing the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and
projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. Knowledge, Skills, Training And
Competencies Required:- The incumbent of the post will be work under the
supervision and mentorship of the Chief Quantity Surveyor and will be
responsible for providing the quantity surveying inputs and guidance for the
development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, functional/technical
norms and standards, plans for Health in line with the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Framework for the planning and construction of Health Department
Projects. The ideal candidates must have: - Ability to understand the Health
service delivery platform, indicators & service plan and how that links with
infrastructure. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a risk
mitigation strategy. Ability to interpret existing and develop new Functional and
Technical Norms and Standards. Ability to identify the required information
fields and documents for use by Health. Ability to prepare reports, submissions
and presentations. Have the ability to meet strict project deadlines –
preparation of documentation, report writing, chairing and minute taking of site
meetings. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract and interpret
information from related information systems. Ability to understand how to
apply the IDMS. Ability to understand how to identify the required information
fields and documents for use by Health.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist in preparing the construction procurement
strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Assist to
prepare Packages/Individual Project Briefs. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Assist in
monitoring the implementation of Programmes/Projects. Make inputs to
different Project Stage reports & designs. Assist to manage the interface
between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent[s]. Load
project documents and update information on the data management system.
Manage human, physical and financial resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/121 : CANDIDATE ARCHITECT: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY AND WORK
INSPECTION (1 POST)
(Three Year Contract)
SALARY : R660 612.per annum. (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Bachelor‘s Degree in
Architecture. Registered as a Candidate Architect with SACAP. A valid drivers’
license. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS
Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The
successful applicant must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the
province and work longer hours. Main Role: To assist in managing the delivery
of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and projects in line with the
Provincial IDMS. Knowledge, Skills, Training And Competencies Required The
incumbent of this post will work under the Chief Architect’s supervision and
mentorship and will be responsible to provide the architectural inputs and
guidance for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
functional/technical norms and standards which includes form and space
95
designs in line with the Infrastructure Delivery Management Framework
(IDMS). The ideal candidates must have. Ability to understand how to apply the
IDMS. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract and interpret
information from related information systems. Ability to understand the Health
service delivery platform, indicators & service plan and how that links with
infrastructure. Ability to understand how to undertake a risk analysis and
undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to specify low maintenance building
options. Ability to understand how to interpret existing/ customize functional
and technical norms and standards. Ability to understand how to identify the
required information fields and documents for use by Health. Ability to
understand how to prepare reports, submissions and presentations. Possess
management experience in design and delivery of infrastructure programmes
for Health.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist in preparing the construction procurement
strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Assist to
prepare Packages/Individual Project Briefs. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Assist in
monitoring the implementation of Programmes/Projects. Make inputs to
different Project Stage reports & designs. Assist to manage the interface
between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent[s]. Load
project documents and update information on the data management system.
Manage human, physical and financial resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/122 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN-MECHANICAL:
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SUPPORT (GRADE A-
B) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R551 493.per annum
Grade B: R933 396.per annum. (The Department will determine the salary
package based on years of experience post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: National Diploma in Mechanical/Electrical
Engineering or equivalent relevant qualification. Registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineering Technician Mechanical/Electrical. Six (6) years’ post
qualification technical experience. Training programme undertaken and
successfully completed in Project Management will serve as an added
advantage. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer
literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting
platforms literacy. The successful applicant must be prepared to travel
extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: To
render technical services and support in terms of management of service
providers responsible for the maintenance of lifts, laundry machines,
refrigeration and boilers and manage information on the use of utilities. The
ideal candidate must have the ability to work in line with the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework (IDMS), guide and operate within all
applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and instruction notes. Knowledge,
Skills, Training and Competencies Required: - The incumbent of this post will
be responsible to provide all electrical/mechanical engineering inputs and
guidance which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering
applications for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
projects functional / technical norms and standards aligned to the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). The ideal candidate must
have: - Ability to apply the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). Ability to understand the Health service delivery platform,
indicators & service plan and how that links with infrastructure. Ability to
understand how acquisitions and disposals are managed in Government.
Ability to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a risk mitigation strategy.
Ability to understand the infrastructure information fields required for updating
health infrastructure information management systems. Have the ability to
meet strict project deadlines – preparation of documentation, report writing,
chairing and minute taking of site meetings. Ability to understand how to
prepare budgets, extract and interpret information from related information
systems.
96
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: - Develop/determine and maintain technical and
functional norms and standards for mechanical/electrical installations and
systems. Assist with the investigation proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile mechanical/electrical
briefing documentation and specifications. Provide inputs to the determination
of the Construction Procurement Strategy and the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan. Validate quality of performance of service providers in
terms of norms, standards and maintenance contracts. Compile reports with
recommendations related to non-performance in terms of maintenance
mechanical/electrical installations and systems. Investigate
mechanical/electrical engineering installations and equipment to validate
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act and the Engineering
Regulations issued in terms of the Act. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Implement [construction],
training and commissioning of mechanical/electrical engineering installations.
Undertake research. Manage human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/123 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE: INFRASTRUCTURE (1 POST)
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: Degree / Diploma in Accounting or Financial
Management. Minimum 3 years’ experience post qualification. Experience in
Financial Management as implemented in government and within the context
of infrastructure, construction budgeting and spending. Valid driver’s license.
Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook,
Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful
applicant must work longer hours. Main Role: To assist with the coordination of
all Finance Management functions for the Chief Directorate Infrastructure
Development and Technical Support Services including financial and supply
chain management. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Experience in determining policies, systems and standard operating
procedures for finance. Have the ability to chase detail, check and verify for
correctness and compliance. An eye for detail and Ability to understand how to
extract and interpret information from related information systems and linkages
of that to infrastructure. Excellent communication and writing skills, compilation
of reports, presentation, facilitation, co-ordination and analytical skills. Ability to
direct inputs and provide guidance for the development of systems and
standard operating procedures. Ability to understand how to prepare reports,
submissions and presentations. The ideal candidate must have: the ability to
guide and operate within all applicable legislation, policies, frameworks and
instruction notes.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Extract, analyse and validate financial information for
infrastructure projects/programmes. Provide financial administration services
for all infrastructure Programmes and projects. Prepare financial reports.
Compliance with the financial and supply chain management policies and
prescripts in the chief directorate. Provide budget administration services.
Establish, update and maintain a document management system for all
financial documentation. Load project documents and update information on
the data management system. People management. Manage human, physical
and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/124 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN-MECHANICAL: INFRASTRUCTURE
MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SUPPORT (GRADE A-C) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671.per annum
Grade B: R442 389.per annum
Grade C: R498 816.per annum (The Department will determine the salary
package based on years of experience post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
97
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Bachelor‘s Degree/National
Diploma in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent relevant qualification.
Registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Three [3]
years’ experience. A valid drivers’ license. Inherent requirements of the job:
Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual
meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant must be prepared to travel
extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: To
render technical services and support in engineering research, design,
manufacturing, operations and maintenance. Knowledge, Skills, Training And
Competencies Required: - The incumbent of this post will be responsible to
provide all mechanical technical inputs and guidance which include all aspects
of innovative and complex engineering applications for the development of
infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, projects functional / technical
norms and standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System [IDMS]. The ideal candidate must have: - Ability to apply
the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Ability to
understand the Health service delivery platform, indicators & service plan and
how that links with infrastructure. Ability to understand how acquisitions and
disposals are managed in Government. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and
undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to understand the infrastructure
information fields required for updating health infrastructure information
management systems. Have the ability to meet strict project deadlines –
preparation of documentation, report writing, chairing and minute taking of site
meetings. Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract and interpret
information from related information systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist the Engineer with technical activities. Promote
safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing
maintenance technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures. Produce
technical designs with specifications. Assist in managing the execution of the
maintenance strategy. Assist in setting engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Assist in monitoring maintenance
efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering
services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Collect and analyze
data on use of utilities by Health Facilities. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Manage human, physical and
financial resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/125 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN-ELECTRICAL: INFRASTRUCTURE
MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SUPPORT (GRADE A-C) (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671.per annum
Grade B: R442 389.per annum
Grade C: R498 816.per annum (The Department will determine the salary
package based on years of experience post professional registration)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate Bachelor‘s Degree/National
Diploma in Electrical Engineering or equivalent relevant qualification.
Registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Three [3]
years’ experience. A valid drivers’ license. [Inherent requirements of the job:
Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual
meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant must be prepared to travel
extensively throughout the province and work longer hours. Main Role: To
render technical services and support in engineering research, design,
manufacturing, operations and maintenance. Knowledge, Skills, Training And
Competencies Required: The incumbent of this post will be responsible to
provide all electrical technical inputs and guidance which include all aspects of
innovative and complex engineering applications for the development of
infrastructure strategies, policies, systems, projects functional/technical norms
and standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). The ideal candidate must have: Ability to apply the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Ability to understand the
Health service delivery platform, indicators & service plan and how that links
with infrastructure. Ability to understand how acquisitions and disposals are
98
managed in Government. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and undertake a
risk mitigation strategy. Ability to understand the infrastructure information
fields required for updating health infrastructure information management
systems. Have the ability to meet strict project deadlines – preparation of
documentation, report writing, chairing and minute taking of site meetings.
Ability to understand how to prepare budgets, extract and interpret information
from related information systems.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist the Engineer with technical activities. Promote
safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing
maintenance technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures. Produce
technical designs with specifications. Assist in managing the execution of the
maintenance strategy. Assist in setting engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Assist in monitoring maintenance
efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering
services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Collect and analyze
data on use of utilities by Health Facilities. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Manage human, physical and
financial resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/126 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE &
TECHNICAL SUPPOR (01 POST)
SALARY : R397 116.per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: National Diploma in Building or Mechanical
or Electrical or N3 with passed Trade Test OR National Diploma in Engineering.
Three (3) years’ experience post qualification. Valid Drivers’ License. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To manage the design and implementation of inspections of
buildings and machinery to validate compliance with Occupational Health and
Safety Regulations. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
procurement policy and procedures. In depth knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations’ financial delegations and risk
management. relevant legislation and public service regulations. skills- project
management, planning and organising, people management, conflict
resolution, computer literacy. monitoring of projects. communication analytical.
presentation. report writing. financial. able to work independently. professional.
confidential. quality driven. team player. ability to work under pressure.
decisive, strategic. innovative. attention to detail. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide technical inputs to Health Facilities to draw
up specifications and monitor compliance by service providers regarding safety
matters. Implement regular compliance inspections and safety audits at health
facilities. Conduct investigations into accidents and make recommendations.
Manage the analysis of technical data. Make recommendations in terms of
interventions required in terms of condition of buildings and or machinery that
are compromising adherence with occupational health and safety
requirements. Manage the development of plans to address shortcomings in
terms of compliance in terms of Occupational Health and Safety Requirements
and Quality Assurance Standards. Load project documents and update
information on the data management system. Manage human, physical and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/127 : WORKS INSPECTORS: INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE &
TECHNICAL SUPPORT (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499.per annum. (Level 06)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
99
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: National Diploma in Building or Mechanical
or Electrical OR N3 with passed Trade Test or National Diploma in Engineering.
One (1) years’ experience post qualification. Valid Drivers’ License. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The successful applicant
must be prepared to travel extensively throughout the province and work longer
hours. Main Role: To implement inspections on compliance with the
Occupational Health and Safety legislation in terms of machinery or buildings
at all health facilities and assist with the development and implementation of
remedial plans. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
procurement policy and procedures. In depth knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations’ financial delegations and risk
management. relevant legislation and public service regulations. skills- project
management, planning and organising, people management, conflict
resolution, computer literacy. monitoring of projects. communication analytical.
presentation. report writing. financial. able to work independently. professional.
confidential. quality driven. team player. ability to work under pressure.
decisive, strategic. innovative. attention to detail. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide technical inputs to Health Facilities to draw
up specifications and monitor compliance by service providers regarding safety
matters. Implement regular compliance inspections and safety audits at health
facilities. Conduct investigations into accidents. Collect and analyse technical
data. Make recommendations in terms of interventions required in terms of
condition of buildings and or machinery that are compromising adherence with
occupational health and safety requirements. Implement Occupational Health
and Safety Plans. Provide Occupational Health and Safety. Load project
documents and update information on the data management system. Manage
human, physical and financial resources. Undertake research.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
POST 36/128 : DATA CAPTURER: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY AND WORK
INSPECTION (1 POST)
SALARY : R193 354.per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: A minimum of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 4. Proven practical experience in data
capturing within a built environment support office. Use of infrastructure
systems, for example GIS, IRM, PMIS, PROMAN, etc. will serve as an added
advantage. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS
Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. The
successful applicant must be prepared to work longer hours. Main Role: The
Data Capturer will be responsible for the capturing of data from various source
documents into the computer system for storage, processing and management
purposes; and perform basic office administration duties. Knowledge And Skills
And Competencies Required: Excellent organizational and planning skills with
the ability to prioritize time and work effectively; Ability to sort and analyze data.
Strong people skills with the ability to work under pressure; Highly-motivated,
confident communicator with the ability to engage with people at all levels;
Pays attention to detail and displays a high level of integrity; Able to multi-task
and is deadline orientated; Ability to work independently, as well as in a team;
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to work across
diverse cultural backgrounds; Innovative and creative, able to see new
opportunities; and reflective and open to learning.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide property infrastructure administrative
support. Provide data management administrative and repository support to
the infrastructure management unit Capture data into different systems
according to data specified timelines and data flow. Daily capturing and
updating of the infrastructure data onto PMIS and any available systems.
Validate data for completeness, correctness and consistency. Maintain
electronic and manual records of all data used for reporting. Follow up
discrepancy with the relevant project and finance managers / contractors /
professional service providers. The mining and or analysis of data associated
with the planning, design implementation, commissioning and
100
operationalization of projects; retrieval of documents and or information for
management and audit support. Compile, update and maintain a document
and electronic management system for projects, infrastructure data and
immovable assets. Assist in timely preparations and submission of required
reports. Undertake general office administration duties.
ENQUIRIES : about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms Mompei MM at Tel No:
015 293 6126 /Ms Sebake RL at 015 293 6426, Ms Sebola MF at 015 293 6002
and Ms Mothiba JT during office hours.
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs is an equal
opportunity employer with clear employment equity targets. The Department is committed to providing
equal opportunities and affirmative action employment practices. It is our intention to promote
representation in terms of race, gender, and disability. Women and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements & Traditional
Affairs would like to invite suitably qualified candidates who are creative, energetic, self-driven, and
hardworking and have a passion for improving the standard of living of citizens of Limpopo, to apply for
the positions as it appears below.
APPLICATIONS : should be submitted online through http://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za Hand
delivered applications should be submitted to 28 Market Street (Next to UNISA)
Registry Office (First Floor) or alternatively post to The Head of Department;
Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional
Affairs, Private Bag X9485, POLOKWANE 0700.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025.
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on a New Z83 form obtainable from all Public
Service Departments or at www.dpsa.gov.za (must be completed in full), and a
comprehensive copy of your Curriculum Vitae ONLY (Certified copies of ID
matric certificate, drivers’ license and qualifications will be requested from
shortlisted candidates only). The specific reference number for the post must
be quoted. SMS candidates are required to produce proof of completion of
National School of Government Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
prior to appointment. The course is obtainable on link:
https://www.thensg.govza/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. ““All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with
DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.” Short-listed
candidates for the above posts will be subjected to a Security clearance and
verification of qualifications. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain
responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbents will be
expected to sign a performance agreement within one month after the
assumption of duty. The successful candidate will also be required to disclose
their financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Failure to
comply with the requirements will result in the applicants being disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. However, should there
be any dissatisfaction; applicants are hereby advised to seek reasons for the
above administration action in terms of Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right to make an
appointment in respect of the advertised posts.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/129 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE. REF NO:
CoGHSTA 25/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 813 182.per annum (All-inclusive salary package) (Level 15)
CENTRE : Polokwane
101
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus a post-graduate qualification (NQF Level 8) in Public Administration
/ Public Management/ Political Science related as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum 8 years of experience at a senior managerial level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and leadership, People Management &
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management and Programme
& Project Management. Skills And Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Facilitation
skills, Report Writing, Time management, Ability to Communicate with people
at different levels and from different backgrounds, Creative/innovative,
Analytical Thinking skills, Language Skills, Good grooming and Presentation,
Good Telephone Etiquette, Good Organizational skills, Good People skills,
High level of reliability, Basic written communication skills, Ability to act with
tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide and facilitate provincial development and planning service; Coordinate
municipal infrastructure development; Monitor, support and evaluate the
performance of municipalities; Coordinate intergovernmental relations,
Disaster Management, public participation and governance; Manage
resources (financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
POST 37/130 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS REF NO:
CoGHSTA 26/25
Branch: Traditional Affairs
SALARY : R1 813 182.per annum (All-inclusive salary package) (Level 15)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus a post-graduate qualification (NQF Level 8) in Anthropological
Services, Law, Public Administration or related as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum 8 years of experience at a senior managerial level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and leadership, People Management &
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management and Programme
& Project Management. Skills And Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Facilitation
skills, Report Writing, Time management, Ability to Communicate with people
at different levels and from different backgrounds, Creative/innovative,
Analytical Thinking skills, Language Skills, Good grooming and Presentation,
Good Telephone Etiquette, Good Organizational skills, Good People skills,
High level of reliability, Basic written communication skills, Ability to act with
tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Oversee the establishment and functionality of Traditional Leadership
Institutions; Monitor and coordinate the administrative support to district
satellite and Traditional Councils; Provide strategic direction and management
to the Traditional Affairs Branch; Oversee the management and administrative
support to Kingship and Queenship; Monitor Traditional Council finances;
Oversee, manage and monitor the provision of initiation school; Ensure good
standard and compliance to the bill of rights at the circumcision schools;
Oversee and coordinate activities of the executive committee of the Houses;
Monitor the activities of portfolio committees; Monitor the establishment of
Provincial and Local Houses; Oversee and coordinate the recognition and
events of traditional leaders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/131 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
CoGHSTA 27/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive salary package) (Level 11).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Security
Management, Criminal Justice & Forensic Investigations/Policing or related as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 years relevant experience at supervisory
level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g. Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, Knowledge on the relevant
102
policies/prescripts and procedures etc. Skills And Knowledge: Strategic
Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management; Financial
Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem Solving and Analysis; People Management
and Empowerment; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication;
Research; Computer Utilization; Policy Formulation; Vetting; Investigation
DUTIES : Manage implementation of MISS/PISP within the department and
Municipalities Manage physical and information security disciplines within the
department; Manage and implement access control services within the
department; Manage establishment and implementation of security screening
(vetting) strategies and procedures; Manage contract security; Ensure the
provision and coordination of physical security support to the MEC’s visits;
Develop a scheduled physical and information security audit programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
POST 37/132 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSURANCE SERVICES REF NO: CoGHSTA 28/25
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive salary package) (Level 11).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Accounting/ Internal Auditing/Cost
Management and Accounting and Financial Accounting (NQF Level 6) or
related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years relevant experience at
supervisory level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability). Affiliation with Professional Body i.e. IIASA and SAICA, added
advantage with: IAT, PIA and CA (SA) Designation(s) Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of Accounting and auditing
Standards; Public Finance and Auditing; Public Administration; Project
management; Relationship management; Leadership; Communication;
Change management; Performance management. Skills And Knowledge:
Accounting & auditing; Computer literacy; Policy analysis; Budgeting; Public
Management; Communication.
DUTIES : Manage Internal Control Plans and Framework; Manage the facilitation of
assurance services; Manage internal and external audit with Treasury, Internal
Audit, Auditor-General and other Stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
POST 37/133 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FLEET SERVICES REF NO: CoGHSTA 29/25
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive salary package) (Level 11).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Transport Management, Public
Management/Administration or related field (NQF Level 6) or related as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 years relevant experience at supervisory
level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
And Process Competencies: Knowledge of a variety of work ranges and
procedures such as: Transport Management, Transport Circulars, Public
Finance Management Act, Public Service Act 1994, Public Service Regulations
2001 as amended. Skills And Knowledge: Communication skills; Negotiating
skills; Facilitation skills; Report writing, Co-operation skills; Liaison skills;
Networking.
DUTIES : Manage the procurement of new vehicles for government own and subsidized
vehicles; Manage registration and licensing of state vehicles; Manage the
repairs and maintenance of departmental fleet and disposal of worn out and
obsolete vehicles; Manage processing of fuel payment claims for all schemes
(MMS, SMS, A & B); Manage the provision and development of transport
manuals and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
POST 37/134 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL PERFORMANCE MONITORING &
EVALUATION REF NO: CoGHSTA 30/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Waterberg
103
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Local Government/Public
Management/ Public Administration (NQF Level 6) or related as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum 3 years relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
framework governing the public service; Understanding of the public service
environment; Municipal Structures Act; Municipal Systems Act; Municipal
Finance Management Act; Public Finance Management Act; Integrated
Development Planning; Performance Monitoring and Evaluation; General
Management; Strategic Planning; Service Delivery; Governance Issues;
Relevant Legislation; Financial Management; Development and Planning Skills
And Knowledge: Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People management
skills; Time management; Communication, both formal, and informal; Policy
Development.
DUTIES : Coordinate and consolidate the MEC reports on the state of Municipalities;
Coordinate and evaluate the performance of municipalities on a periodic basis
in compliance with the MSA & MFMA; Audit the implementation of PMS by
municipalities on annual basis; Provide support to municipalities with the
implementation of the individual PMS; Monitoring of the employment contracts
of 57 Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
POST 37/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
REF NO: CoGHSTA 31/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Level 10).
CENTRE : Capricorn
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Public
Administration/Development Studies/Social Science (NQF 6) or related as
recognized by SAQA; Minimum of 3 years relevant experience and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service such as: Employment Equity Act, Skills
Development Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act,
Public Service Act, Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of
Information Act, Public Service Regulations and various Bargaining Council
Resolutions. Skills And Knowledge: Negotiation skills, People management,
Financial planning, Planning & organizing, Time management, Strategic
planning, Policy analysis and development, Good communication skills, Group
dynamics, Diversity management, Facilitation skills, Co-ordination skills,
Leadership skills, Change and knowledge management.
DUTIES : Coordinate the integrated development interventions in partnership with other
relevant stakeholders; Coordinate community development service delivery
area(s) to ensure that efficient and effective community development service
is delivered; Coordinate research on community development. Support
municipalities to respond to community concerns; Manage the team and
undertake all administrative functions required and report on progress as
required; Develop implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control
of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
POST 37/136 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES & DIVERSIRY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: CoGHSTA 32/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Social Sciences/Social
Work/Public Administration or related (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum 3 years relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with exception
of person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-
depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and the legislative framework governing
the public service, Public Service Regulation, Public Service Act, PFMA,
National Youth Development Agency Act 54 of 2008, Children’s Act 38 of 2005,
Beijing Declaration and Platform of Action (1995), Gender Policy Framework
104
for Local Government, Older Person’s Rights Act 13 of 2006, White Paper on
the Rights of persons with Disabilities of 09th March 2016, Employment Equity
Act 55 of 1998, Public Service Act of 1994.. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation
skills; Presentation/Facilitation skills; Report Writing; Time management;
Communication, both formal, and informal; Creative/innovative; Analytical
Thinking skills.
DUTIES : Develop and facilitate the implementation of departmental policies and
programmes regarding gender, youth and people with disabilities; Co-ordinate,
promote and implement all matters related to youth, gender, people with
disabilities, and Batho Pele in the department; Promote and protect human
dignity & human rights (women, youth, children, older persons including
women with disabilities); Provide support to municipalities during Provincial,
National and International Days events; Provide technical advice on matters
related to special programs and transformation to senior management. Liaise
and communicate with both internal & external key stakeholders of the
Department in relation to gender, youth, people with disabilities programmes.
Coordinate and facilitate activities of moral regeneration movement with all
stakeholders and the department
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 37/137 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET MONITORING & REPORTING REF
NO: CoGHSTA 33/25
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Financial Accounting/
Accounting/Cost and Management Accounting (NQF Level 6) or related as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 3 years relevant experience and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). core and process
competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, PPPFA, etc.Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, National Treasury Regulation, Financial Reporting
Standards. Skills & Knowledge: Computer skills; Accounting skills; Negotiation
skills; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time management;
Communication, both formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Budget monitoring; Budget reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
POST 37/138 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
CoGHSTA 34/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Information Technology (NQF
Level 6) or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability).Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts and the legislative framework governing the public service,
including: Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Business process analysis and modelling, System
development lifecycle (SDLC) and IT governance frameworks (COBIT, ITIL,
ISO 27001) Experience in project leadership and management. Skills &
Knowledge: Technical Skills: Business process analysis, System development
and administration, ICT project management, Database management Soft
Skills: Communication and interpersonal skills, People management and
teamwork, Planning.
DUTIES : Develop systems according to technical specification and Methodologies;
Implement changes to existing systems according to approved standards and
procedures; Monitor and make recommendations on systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 37/139 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ANTI-FRAUD & CORRUPTION
MANAGEMENT REF NO: CoGHSTA 35/25 (2 POSTS)
Branch: HOD Support
105
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Criminal Justice & Forensic
Investigations/Policing/Internal Auditing (NQF 6) or related as recognized by
SAQA; Minimum of 3 years relevant experience and valid South African driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Regulation, Public Service Act, PFMA, MFMA, Code of Conduct. Skills
& Knowledge: Investigation; Interviewing skills; Good communication skills
both formal and inform; Negotiation skills; Presentation/Facilitation skills;
Report Writing; Time management; Creative/innovative; Co-ordination skills;
Networking; Analytical Thinking skills.
DUTIES : Conduct investigations on reported incidents of fraud and corruption within the
department and municipalities; Prevent Corporate Crime and Misconduct
within the Department and Municipalities; Coordinate recovery of assets
acquired fraudulently; Identification of weaknesses in the internal control
measures and recommend and monitor the improvement thereof; Conduct
awareness workshops on Anti-Fraud and Corruption within the Department
and Municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
POST 37/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MISCONDUCT & DISPUTES REF NO:
CoGHSTA 36/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations/Law (NQF 6) or
related as recognized by SAQA; Minimum of 3 years relevant experience and
valid South African driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability).Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts, Knowledge and understanding public service legislations,
regulations & labour laws (LRA, BCEA, EEA, Skills Development Act, COIDA,
OHSA, Public Service Act & Regulations); Conciliation & Arbitration processes;
PCSBC & GPSSBC Resolutions; Rules for the Conduct of proceedings before
the CCMA/ GPSSBC.. Skills & Knowledge: Strategic capabilities & leadership,
Programme & project management, People management, Change
management, Conflict resolution, Policy formulation and Communication,
Computer literacy, Financial management, Problem solving & analysis, Service
delivery innovation.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the Investigation of misconduct & conduct disciplinary hearings:
Represent the department on the disputes referred to GPSSBC, CCMA,
PSCBC, and the Labour Court; Co-ordinate the Drafting of legal opinions on
Labour matters; Co-ordinate the Training of Management and employees on
the Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 37/141 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CoGHSTA 37/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R397 116.per annum (Level 8).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Security Management, Criminal
Justice & Forensic Investigations/Policing (NQF 6) or related as recognized by
SAQA; Minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Valid South African driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core And Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, Knowledge on the relevant
policies/prescripts and procedures etc. Extensive knowledge of security
(Minimum Information Security Standards- MISS and MPSS Minimum Physical
Security Standards) Handling of Fire Arms Skills & Knowledge: Strategic
Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management; Financial
Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service
106
Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem Solving and Analysis; People Management
and Empowerment; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication;
Research; Computer Utilisation; Policy Formulation; Vetting; Investigation.
DUTIES : Implementation of MISS/PISP within the department and Municipalities;
Implement and monitor access control system within the department and the
municipalities, Implement security screening (vetting) procedures; Conduct
information and physical security awareness workshops and on-job training;
Supervising of private security service providers; Facilitate physical security
support to the MEC’s visits to municipalities; Conduct physical and information
security audit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
POST 37/142 : SYSTEM CONTROLLER: INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY & INFOMATION
SERVICES REF NO: CoGHSTA 38/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R397 116.per annum (Level 8).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Information Technology (NQF 6)
or related as recognized by SAQA; Minimum of 2 years ICT experience. Valid
South African driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g. Disaster Management Act, Disaster Management Framework, Public
Service Act, Occupational Health and Safety ACT, PFMA. Skills & Knowledge:
Research, Communication, Report writing, Computer Literacy, Information
Technology, Financial Management.
DUTIES : Maintain the installed disaster management information management and
communication systems; Capacitate the end-users on the usage of the current
and the new information management in the municipalities; Identification of
information management and communication modes (Data acquisition
systems); Facilitate timely dissemination of early warning, public awareness
and preparedness; Capture and update disaster management projects into the
integrated disaster risk management database and Departmental GIS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raesibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068
POST 37/143 : DISASTER PRACTITIONER: RISK ASSESSMENT & REDUCTION
POSTS REF NO: CoGHSTA 39/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R397 116.per annum (Level 8).
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification Disaster Management (NQF 6) or
related as recognized by SAQA; Minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Valid
South African driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g. Batho Pele principles; public service act; Dynamics, culture and language
of the target Community, Disaster Management Act, National Disaster
Management Framework. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills, Presentation
skills, People management skills, Time management, Communication,
Computer skill, Numeracy skill, Presentation skills, People management skills,
Financial management skills.
DUTIES : Conduct risk assessment; Develop integrated disaster risk management plans;
Develop and implement disaster risk reduction programmes; Develop and
implement contingency plans for national and provincial events
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raesibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068
POST 37/144 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER REF NO: CoGHSTA 40/25(10
POSTS)
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Blouberg Ward 06
Lepelle-Nkumi Ward 19
Mogalakwena Ward 01 & 09
Greater Giyani Ward 19
107
Greater Letaba Ward 11
Makhuduthamaga Ward 09 & 20
Collins Chabane Ward 32
Makhado Ward 03
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/Public
Management (NQF 6) or related as recognized by SAQA. National Certificate
in Community Development will be an added advantage. Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability).Core And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts, Batho Pele principles; public service act; computer literacy;
Dynamics, culture and language of the target Community Skills & Knowledge:
Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time
management; Communication; Computer skills; Numeracy skill.
DUTIES : Compile ward profiling; Identification of service delivery cases; Identification of
community concerns; Conduct household visits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Masha Raesibe Tel No: (015) 294 2068/Ms. Malahlela Nora (015) 294 2224
POST 37/145 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN ASSISTANT REF NO: CoGHSTA 41/25
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Land Surveying (NQF 6) or
related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1-year relevant experience. Core
And Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge:
Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People management skills, Time
management, Communication, both formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Provision of logistical support for the spatial planner; Mapping of areas for Land
Development planning; Maintaining survey plan room and ensure safe keeping
of diagrams; Identification and confirmation of boundary and beacons;
Confirmation of sites for deeds office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
POST 37/146 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT &
DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS REF NO: CoGHSTA 48/25
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R269 499.per annum (Level 6)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management
(NQF 6) or related as recognized by SAQA. Core And Process Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the
legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Knowledge: Negotiation skills;
Presentation skills; People management skills; Time management;
Communication, both formal and informal.
DUTIES : Arrange e-permis user training support; Profiling the submitted performance
agreements/instruments; Profiling the submitted semester review reports;
Facilitate the processing of performance evidence; Process performance
management system incentives
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
108
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025.
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the Correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. please note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/147 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): MALE SURGICAL WARD REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/404
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Mmametlhake Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act etc.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
Professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the supervision and
utilization of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development. Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment
and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele and
109
patient centered Nursing care. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
team in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/148 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): OUTPATIENT WARD REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/405
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Mmametlhake Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act etc.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
Professional / legal framework. Manage effectively the supervision and
utilization of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development. Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment
and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele and
patient centered Nursing care. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
team in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/149 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL WARD REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/406
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : H A Grove Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. . Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act etc.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
Professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the supervision and
utilization of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development. Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment
and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele and
patient-centered Nursing care. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
team in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
110
POST 37/150 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK AND ETHICS MANAGEMENT REF. NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/407
SALARY : R468 459 per.annum. (Level 9) (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Internal
Auditing/ Accounting/ Risk Management as recognized by SAQA. Membership
of IRMSA and The Ethics Institute will be an added advantage. At least a
minimum of three (3) years’ experience in risk & ethics environment at
supervisory/managerial (Level 7/8). Knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Risk Management Framework (COSO), Anti-fraud and corruption
policies. Skills: Analytical thinking, interpersonal relations, project
management, financial management, strategic leadership and team player,
report writing, presentation, communication and computer skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement Risk and Ethics Management strategies/policies and systems for
the province. Co-ordinate and facilitate risk & ethics assessment and risk
management workshops within the Department. Extract risk information and
develop risk & ethics profiles for the Department. Monitor and evaluate the
departmental performance against action plans in relation to risk management
processes, strategy and charters. Assist in the management of the secretariat
operations and functions for the Risk Management Committee on behalf of the
sub-directorate. Develop and maintain a risk database and risk register for the
Department. Process RWOPS applications, assist in the management and
implementation of the financial disclosure framework, manage gift and
donation register. Investigate officials doing business with state.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/151 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/408
SALARY : R468 459 per.annum. (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Carolina Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration / Public Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a
minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience of which three (3) years’
experience must be at supervisory/managerial (Level 7/8) within Health
Environment. Knowledge of Human Resources and Administrative support
services. Sound financial management, facility management and supervision.
Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work extra hours and be on standby when
need arises. Advanced computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good written and
communication skills. Good planning and organizational skills. Knowledge of
the PFMA / Labour Relations and other relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal,
problem – solving and dispute resolution, communication, analytical and writing
skills. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license. Ability to work under pressure
with minimum supervision. Ability to conduct seminars or workshops and
presentation of budget. Strong leadership, managerial, organizational,
strategic, operational and contingency planning skills. Independent decision-
making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulations 2001, Public Service Act 1994, Employment Equity Act 55
of 1998, Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other related prescripts of the
Department of Health.
DUTIES : Overall management of hospital administration include facility management
and security. Efficient and effective implement the Departmental strategic
planning of the corporate services. Management of personnel administration,
human resource development and training, disciplinary procedures, labour
relations, recruitment and selection processes and staff performance
assessment. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees
maintenance requirements. Support the Medical Manager and management
team. Effectively and efficiently run the Corporate Services within the hospital
and give full support to other services and programmes within the Hospital.
111
Ensure high level of administration and improve cleanliness within the hospital
environment. Promotion of equity when it comes to resource distribution to
ensure that the targets are achieved. Effectively manage and develop human
resources, including sound employment relations. Support Employee
Assistance Programme, departmental health information and communication
technology functions in the hospital. Exercise and regulate, control over
institutional activities. Monitor implementation of the plans. Represent the
district / hospital in various forums at the district level and report to senior
structures of the department. Provide subordinates with the overall policy
framework and provide strategic leadership. Develop and maintain
constructive working relationships within administration and support and other
Professional structures. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of financial and
physical resources. Be responsible for the supervision and evaluation of the
staff performance. Manage the office budget. Coordinate proper staffing of
hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/152 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/409
SALARY R325 101 per annum. (Level 7) (plus service benefits)
CENTRE Middelburg Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Auxiliary
Services or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Management as recognised by . Knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act,
regulations and other prescripts. Knowledge of office management. Computer
literacy or Certificate with practical knowledge of Microsoft programs (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Internet). Must possess the ability to plan, organize,
supervise, inspect and evaluate work of subordinates. Knowledge of OHS and
infection Control. Valid driver’s licence is essential. Good communication skills
(written and verbal).
DUTIES : Implement policies and processes on office support services. Facilitate and
render general office support services (Porter, Mortuary, Switchboard services,
Security services and Messenger Services). Ensure compliance with National
Core Standards and ideal assessment tools. Leave matters and overtime
management. Provide advice to floor supervisors. Ensure security services are
in their post 24/7, and the Control Room is always active. Make rounds and
monitor security services, mortuary, porter, switchboard and messenger
services are performing the required duties and meeting deadlines. Take
responsibility for movement or transfer of corpses from various referral facilities
in collaboration with the wards and your supervisor. Be actively involved in
budgeting and budgetary control for these units. Ensure saving measures are
put in place. Apply disciplinary measures when necessary. Order, receive and
distribute materials and equipment for the units under your control. Manage
performance and development of staff. Attend meetings and give feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/153 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/412 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per. annum. (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (1 Post)
Themba Hospital (1 Post)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience or Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Labour Relations /
Public Administration / Human Resources Management or relevant field as
recognized by SAQA. Computer Literacy certificate with the ability to work on
Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Excel good analytical skills, Good
112
written and verbal communication skills. Good Interpersonal relations and the
ability to work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Support the implementation of employee relations policies, plans, systems,
guidelines, procedures and processes to create a conducive labour relations
environment, in line with the relevant public service prescripts. Assist in
conducting ER investigations, resolving disputes and grievances, ensuring
proper preparation, presenting cases and representing the Department at
conciliation and arbitration, where required. Represent the Department at
Disciplinary cases, where required, ensuring adequate preparation,
presentation of cases and obtaining a mandate before disciplinary hearings.
Provide ER advice and facilitate capacity-building initiatives to the business
unit on request for non-complex matters. Assist in coordinating the
department’s collective bargaining processes and agreements, including
preparation of the DBC, identification of items, review of minutes and ensuring
the implementation of decisions taken at the DBC. Follow up on employee
relations issues with management and employees. Administered and
maintained a reliable labour relations reporting system for allocated cases,
ensuring timely submission of required statistics, drafting quarterly, annual, and
ad hoc reports/ statistics, and capturing cases on PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/154 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/413
SALARY R325 101 per.annum. (plus service benefits)
CENTRE Middelburg Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) Persal courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/155 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/414
SALARY : R325 101 per.annum. (plus service benefits)
113
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Accounting / Financial
Management as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge and experience in
expenditure management, main focus in the following areas: Logis,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPFMA) Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic Accounting System (BAS) Computer literacy, sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal) Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid drivers’ license
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supervise and control the work of sub-ordinate in the expenditure management
unit. Authorize payments on Bas and Logis system. Understanding of all
aspects of supply chain processes. Ensuring compliance with departmental
and treasury regulations. Enforce internal control measures. Manage all open
orders report (Accruals) and reconciliation of accounts. Ensure compliance on
Subsistence and Travel claims. Deal with Human resources matters such as
leave and perform development system of quarterly evaluation reports.
Knowledge of Bas and Logis financial systems. Attend and respond to audit
queries. Provide administrative support to institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/156 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDoH/Oct/25/415
SALARY : R325 101 per.annum. (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : KwaMhlanga Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognised by SAQA or equivalent qualification.
Extensive knowledge of outpatient administration, reception in and help desk
functions. Extensive knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user
guide/procedure book. Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of
sector financial administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of
relevant prescripts such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill,
report writing skills be computer literate and have ability to work under
pressure. Be available to work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and
be part of the hospital’s multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will
serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/157 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/426 (11
POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : EMS Matibidi Station (3 Posts)
EMS Themba Station (1 Post)
EMS Matikwana Station (1 Post)
EMS Sabie Station (6 Posts) (Ehlanzeni District)
114
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge of
basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of Road
Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical patient
management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency procedures.
Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any EMS
environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-facility
ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as per the
allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist. Report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/158 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/438 (12
POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : EMS Kriel Station (8 Posts)
and EMS Delmas Station (4 Posts) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge of
basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of Road
Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical patient
management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency procedures.
Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any EMS
environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-facility
115
ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as per the
allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist. Report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 37/159 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF. NO: MPDoH/Oct/25/450 (12
POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : EMS Carolina Station (5), EMS Ermelo Station (1), EMS Amersfoort Station (4)
and EMS Evander Station (2) (Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have an understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge
of basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of
Road Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical
patient management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency
procedures. Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any
EMS environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-
facility ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as
per the allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist, report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
116
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
117
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts. All
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference should be forwarded as follows:
The Head of the Department, Post To: Department of Economic Development
and Tourism P/Bag X6108, Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: MetLife
Towers, (Post Office Building), 13th Floor (Registry Office), Post Office
Building, Kimberley or Email applications to: dedathra@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : MS. M. MUSA
CLOSING DATE : 27 October 2025
NOTE : FOR SMS POSTS: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name “Certificate for entry into SMS” and the
full details can be obtained by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical exercise and a compulsory competency-based
assessment. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security clearance process and the verification of educational
qualification certificates. Appointment of these positions will be provisional,
pending the issue of security clearance. The successful candidate will sign the
performance agreement and employment contract within three months from
the date of assumption of duty. It will also be required that the successful
candidate declare to the EA particulars of all registrable financial interests.
Note: Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
the address specified above. The application must include a duly completed
and signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or
on the internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Please note a
separate application is required for each position applied for. Applications
received using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be
considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
initialled and signed by the applicant (Part F must be answered and declaration
must be completely signed and dated). Failure to fully complete, initial and sign
this form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection
process. ONLY a fully completed, initialled and signed new form Z83 will be
considered, (Section A, B, C, D and F compulsory). Section E and G, it is
acceptable if applicants indicate “refer to CV’, only if a recently updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed qualifications and previous experience is
attached. Applicants are not required to submit/attach copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application, but must submit the new (Z83)
form and detailed curriculum vitae only. The provision of certified documents
will only be required from shortlisted candidates for submission on or before
the day of the interview following a formal communication from Human
Resources unit. In instances where applicants are in possession of a foreign
qualification, it is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit
proof of such evaluation upon being shortlisted for a post. Shortlisted
applicants will be subjected to qualification verification, reference checking,
security screening and vetting. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders will be required to submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits
only if shortlisted. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
instruction/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. The Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s)
to the above post/s. Applications, including those submitted via registered mail
must reach the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date.
Incomplete applications, or applications received after the closing date will be
disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
118
you have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
note that suitable candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment as
well as satisfactory personnel suitability checks (criminal record check,
citizenship verification, financial-asset record check, qualification/study
verification and previous employment verification. Successful candidates will
also be subjected to a security clearance process. Women and persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be required
to sign the performance agreement within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate
declare to the EA particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed
candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s
convenience. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security clearance process and the verification of educational
qualification certificates. Appointment of these positions will be provisional,
pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day
of the interview. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/160 : DIRECTOR: TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION REF NO:
NCDEDAT/2025/05
Re-advert candidates who previously applied, are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355.per annum (All-inclusive TCE package) (Level 13)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree (NQF 7) BCOM Economics,
Business Administration, Trade and Investment; International Trade or related
fields. Master’s degree in Economics will be an added advantage. Minimum 5
years relevant middle/senior management experience. Valid driver’s license.
Skills & Knowledge: Relevant Legislation/Acts, Prescriptive policies &
Regulations. Commodity Trading and Export Experience; Financial
Management; Investment Attraction; Project Management. Technical skills.
Leading. Planning and Organising skills. Communication skills (verbal &
written). Interpersonal skills. Problem-solving, Nyukela certificate is required
before entry into the SMS.
DUTIES : Manage the development of trade and investment strategies and policies
including the implementation thereof. Maximize benefits from international
trade agreements and twinning agreements. Build and maintain networks and
partnerships with key stakeholders provincially and nationally. Participate in
trade and investment IGR. Represent provincial government interest on an ex
officio basis on the relevant industry and governmental structures. Drive and
coordinate regular high-level engagements with key stakeholders across
industry and government. Develop, support and implement the promotion of
the trade and investment sectors in terms of trade and exports. Provide
information on trade leads and export opportunities. Coordination with NCEDA,
national, provincial and local government departments w.r.t alignment and
promotion in the sectors in terms of trade and exports. Oversee, co-develop
and support programmes to improve and promote trade and investment.
Create an enabling environment for increasing foreign direct investment flows.
Increase foreign direct investments into the province. Market the province as
an attractive investment destination. General Management of the Sub-
Directorates within the Directorate. Strategic Planning and Leadership:
Participate in the strategic planning process and active involvement in the
development and management of the business plans for the directorate.
Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in
respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the
directorate, and of the resources employed by it. Human Resource
Management: Participation in the recruitment of staff in the numbers and
grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the directorate’s business
plan. Motivate, train and guide staff within the directorate. Actively manage the
performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff within the Directorate. Actively
manage and promote the maintenance of discipline within the directorate.
Financial Management: Active participation in the budgeting process.
119
Preparing of the Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the Directorate. Assume
overall responsibility for the management, maintenance and safekeeping of the
directorate’s assets. Ensure that full and proper records of the financial affairs
of the directorate are kept in accordance with any prescribed norms and
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Warie Tel No: (053) 839 4070
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer/promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/161 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1-3 NCDOH 104/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1001 349.per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553.per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352.per annum
CENTRE : ZF Mgcawu District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner. Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registered
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees
1- year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with
recognised Foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years appropriate experience
as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
health Professional Council in request of foreign qualified employees, of whom
120
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The candidate will be expected to Interview, examine, investigate, diagnose
and oversee the treatment of patients, including chronic medical
ailment/conditions, medical, surgical, obstetrics and gynecological
emergencies, HIV and TB patients, sick children, antenatal, intrapartum and
postnatal patients Trauma & Emergency Unit. Ensure comprehensive clinical
record keeping. Manage Clinical services and supervise junior doctors
(undergraduate’s students, interns and community service doctors). Develop
systems for appropriate levels of care, referral pathways, seamless and
integrated service delivery system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D. Theys, Tel no.: (054) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 37/162 : MEDICAL OFFICER REF NO: NCDOH 105/2025 (X 1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349.per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553.per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
CENTRE : Springbok Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner, Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Valid Driver’s Licence.
DUTIES : The candidate will be expected to render quality patient-care for all patients
within in the relevant unit. Exam, investigate, diagnose and the treatment of
patients. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentation and other departmental/unit meetings. Render applicable
administration function, attend meetings, workshops and training as directed
by the Head of Department. Observe and comply with all departmental policies
and guidelines regulating employment relationships and clinical functioning.
Perform duties as assigned by the supervisor and other senior officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D. Theys, Tel no.: (054) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 37/163 : MEDICAL OFFICER, REF NO: NCDOH 106/2025 (6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349.per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553.per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352.per annum (All – Inclusive Package)
CENTRE : Frances Baard Health District: Galeshewe Day Hospital (X1 Posts)
121
Professor ZK Matthews Hospital (X3 Posts)
Connie Vorster Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
Jan Kempdorp CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Medical Practitioner (MBCHB). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit current proof of registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Be available for calls after hours (including
weekends and holidays). A valid driver’s licence. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Grade 2 – A minimum of 5 (five) years appropriate experience as
Medical Officer after registration with the Health Profession Council of South
Africa as Medical Practitioner. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 (ten) years
appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration with the Health
Profession Council of South Africa as Medical Practitioner. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a valid work permit for Non – South
African Citizens. SKILLS PROFILE: Good communication, organizational and
conflict resolution skills. Experience in General Surgery in an accredited
training facility. Post graduate qualification in Surgery. Experience: Basic
diagnostic, clinical, investigative surgical skills. Must be service delivery
orientated: Program planning, implementation and evaluation. Information
management. Human resource management Quality assurance programs.
Current Health and Public Service legislation, regulations and policy. Medical
ethics, epidemiology and statistics.
DUTIES : The candidate will be expected to render quality patient-care for all patients
within in the relevant unit. Exam, investigate, diagnose and the treatment of
patients. Manage emergency/ casualty care/ trauma, wards, medico – legal
cases. Perform basic surgical procedures as required. Support Quality
Improvement Primary Health Care. Provide guidance to community service
Medical Officers. Ensure implementation of Batho Pele Principles and Patients’
Rights Charter. Participate in clinical audits. Attend clinical meetings and others
as will be indicated. Render clinical services in accordance with the formulated
clinical programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D. Theys, Tel no.: (054) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 37/164 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING – SPECIALITY: OBSTERTRICS &
GYNAECOLOGY AND PAEDIATRICS REF NO: NCDOH 107/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R755 355.per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Paediatric, Neonatal Nursing Science, Child
Nursing Science, Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Science, Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Grade 1 a minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
professional nurse with SANC in general nursing. At least 8 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate /recognisable experience in the specific
speciality. At least 3 years of the referred to above should be appropriate /
recognisable at management level.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care provided within the
set standards professional legal framework. Manage effectively the utilization
and supervision of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander/Ms. M Visser Tel: 053-802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
122
POST 37/165 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING –QUALITY ASSURANCE, REF NO:
NCDOH: 108/2025 (1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096.per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 8 years a appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Experience in
Quality Assurance will serve as an advantage.
DUTIES : To conduct ideal Hospital inspection and facilitating Office of Health Standard
Compliance (OHSC) Inspection. Facilitation of patient experience of care.
Training and orientation on quality Assurance and Infection Control Programs.
Conduct investigation of complaints of patients and patient safety incidents.
Performing annual returns. Facilitate and attend meetings scheduled in the
institution. Management of Central Sterilization Supply Department (CSSD).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JK Pasha/Ms. M Visser Tel: 053-802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/166 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: INFECTION PREVENTION CONTROL
(IPC) REF NO: NCDOH 109/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096.per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
diploma/certificate in Infection Prevention and control (IPC) 6- 12 months’
experience in the infection prevention and control department and must have
computer literacy. Experience: A minimum of 8 years a
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Experience in Quality Assurance will serve as an
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of
Nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, Ideal Hospital
Realization, Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) guidelines and other
relevant Legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, OHS Act, Patient Right
Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act. Skills: Leadership and governance, planning, co-ordination,
administration, organizational, communication, decision making and problem-
solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy
framework. Financial and budgetary knowledge pertaining to the relevant
resource management. Ability to take charge and make appropriate
independent decisions. Insight into the procedures and policies pertaining to
nursing care in infection prevention and control. Ability to interact with diverse
stakeholders and care givers. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Report writing and presentation skills. Interpersonal skills including conflict
management and counselling.
DUTIES : Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of the Infection Prevention and Control
Strategic Framework. Ensure facilities are supported to comply with Ideal
Facility and Office of Health Standards Compliance Norms and Standards.
Facilitate the establishment of IPC committees in districts and support their
functionality. Capacitate staff in facilities on the identification and reporting of
Health Care Associated Infections (HAI). Compile and analyse reports to guide
quality improvement initiatives. Coordinate and support the investigation of
infections and infecting organism in facilities. Ensure surveillance in hospital
infections and participate in outbreak investigation. Provide technical support
to facilities during disease outbreaks. Participate and give IPC training and
education of district staff and focal persons identified.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. CN Modise Tel no: (053) 8300 571
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
123
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 37/167 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER SPECIALITY: THEATRE, NEONATAL ICU,
PAEDS AND RENAL UNIT, REF NO: NCDOH 110/2025 (X 4 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096.per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in one
of the specialities, Advanced Paediatric, Neonatal Nursing Science, Child
Nursing Science, Intensive care, Critical care, Theatre and Nephrology:
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care provided within the
set standards and professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilisation and supervision of resource both physical and human resources.
Coordination of the provision of effective training and research. Provision of
effective support of nursing services Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander/Ms. M Visser Tel: 053-802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/168 : CHIEF DIETITIAN NCDOH 111/2025 (X 1 POST)
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification in Dietetics/ Nutrition that allows for registration
with the HPCSA as a dietician. Current registration with HPCSA as Dietician.
Completion of one- year community service as Dietician or minimum of one –
year formal working experience in the field. A valid driver’s licence. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 3 (three) years appropriate experience in the relevant
profession after registration with the Health Professional Council in South
Africa.
DUTIES : Nutrition management of patients. Patient assessment, counselling and
treatment to improve nutritional status, number of patients assessment,
counselled and treated. Nutrition Education, Promotion and Advocacy co-
ordinate, facilitates and support National nutrition priorities related health
calendar days. Collaboration with relevant stakeholders. Attending / facilitating
meetings with internal stakeholders (Facility Nutrition / District MCYWH &N
meetings, Quarterly Province/District MCYWH&N meeting, Annual Provincial
MCYWH&N, meeting, allied health meetings, perinatal meetings, etc.) Quality
assurance of all nutrition related programmes and functions: Supervisory
support to facilities / nutrition personnel to ensure quality nutrition services.
Number of supervisory support visits other department in the hospital.
Monitoring and evaluation of INP programme: Compile quarterly reports –
Number of quarterly reports compiled and submitted. Present quarterly report
reviews – Number of Presentations done at review or other meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel no: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or e-mailed at
vacanciesdhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
124
POST 37/169 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE – SPECIALITY NURSING, NCDOH 112/2025 (18
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R559 548.per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954.per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in one
of the specialties: Child Nursing Science, Gerontological Nursing Science,
Nephrology , Medical and Surgical Nursing Science, Advanced Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science, Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science, Paediatric
Nursing Science, Advanced Paediatric and Neonatal Nursing Science,
Intensive Nursing Science, Oncology Nursing Science, Operating Theatre
Nursing Science, Neonatal Science, Ophthalmic Nursing Science &
Orthopaedic Nursing science, Plastic Surgery, Emergency and Critical Care
and/or other relevant specialty. Experience: Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years’
experience appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with SANC as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
Specialty Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing – At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognizable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing case with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Planning and organising as well as
monitoring of objectives of the specialised unit. Effective utilization of human
and physical resources. Monitor the linen and cleaning in conjunction with
housekeeping staff. Participation in training and research. To assist in
orientation, induction of all nursing staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Seek learning opportunities such as in-
service training. To complete patient related data and partake in research.
Provision of support to Nursing Services. To promote and maintain the Code of
Conduct of the Public Service, Professional Body.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander/Ms. M Visser Tel: 053-802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/170 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 – SPECIALITY REF NO: NCDOH
113/2025 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R559 548.per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954.per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in one of the specialties: Child Nursing Science, Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science, Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science,
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science, Paediatric Nursing Science, Advanced
Paediatric and Neonatal Nursing Science, Intensive Nursing Science,
Oncology Nursing Science, Operating Theatre Nursing Science, Ophthalmic
Nursing Science & Orthopaedic Nursing science and/or other relevant specialty
. Experience: Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years’ experience
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1 year post basic. Qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework: To assist in planning/organising and
monitoring of the objectives of the specialised unit in consultation with
subordinates. To provide a therapeutic environment for staff, patients and the
125
public. To provide comprehensive, quality nursing care as a member of the
multi-disciplinary team according to the identified needs of the patient, based
on scientific principles. To delegate duties and support staff in the execution of
patient care delivery. To provide direct and indirect supervision of all nursing
staff/housekeeping staff and to give guidance. To ensure continuity of patient
care on all levels e.g. workbook, handover rounds. To liaise and communicate
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as other departments within the hospital
e.g. during operational meetings with nursing supervisor and subordinates.
Participation in training and research: To assist in orientation, induction and
mentoring of all nursing staff and orientation of other staff. To assist in the
planning and co-ordination of training and promote learning opportunities for
all nursing categories i.e. on the job training. To complete patient related data
and partake in research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services: To assist
with relief duties of the supervisor and act as junior shift-leader on both day
and night shift. To partake in overall specialized unit functions, i.e. team
building Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development:
To maintain the Code of Conduct: Public Service. Professional Body. Seek
learning opportunities: In-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel no: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or e-mailed at
vacanciesdhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/171 : PHARMACY INTERN REF NO: NCDOH: 114/2025, (X4 POSTS)
(1 year Contract)
SALARY : R440 226 per annum, (TCE package)
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Pharmacy accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council
(SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Intern.
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist
Intern before commencement of duty. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills):
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Knowledge of and ability to comply with applicable Pharmacy legislation,
National and Provincial Health policies.
DUTIES : Adherence to policies, procedures, and expenditure control. All duties will be
performed under the direct supervision of a Pharmacist. Assist with the training,
education and development of pharmacy staff and other health workers, and
promotion of public health. Effective medicine supply management to ensure
the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Leadership by demonstrating initiative in addressing
problems. Provision of Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation,
dispensing of medication and provision of information to ensure patient
compliance and therapeutic success. Quality Management by demonstrating
compliance with National Core Standards, Occupational Health & Safety
control, and Good Pharmacy practices.
ENQUIRIES : L Vertue Tel No: 053 8302702
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
NOTE : Preference will be given to Northern Cape Bursary holders and applicants
residing in the Northern Cape. Accommodation during Pharmacist Internship
will not be provided. Duty can only be assumed once registration as a
Pharmacist Intern is complete. (starting date will be 01 January 2026)
POST 37/172 : PHARMACY INTERN, REF NO: NCDOH: 115/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(1 year Contract)
SALARY : R440 226 per annum, (TCE package)
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Pharmacy accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council
(SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Intern.
126
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist
Intern before commencement of duty. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills):
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Knowledge of and ability to comply with applicable Pharmacy legislation,
National and Provincial Health policies.
DUTIES : Adherence to policies, procedures, and expenditure control. All duties will be
performed under the direct supervision of a Pharmacist. Assist with the training,
education and development of pharmacy staff and other health workers, and
promotion of public health. Effective medicine supply management to ensure
the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Leadership by demonstrating initiative in addressing
problems. Provision of Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation,
dispensing of medication and provision of information to ensure patient
compliance and therapeutic success. Quality Management by demonstrating
compliance with National Core Standards, Occupational Health & Safety
control, and Good Pharmacy practices.
ENQUIRIES : L Vertue Tel No: 053 8302702
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
NOTE : Preference will be given to Northern Cape Bursary holders and applicants
residing in the Northern Cape. Accommodation during Pharmacist Internship
will not be provided. Duty can only be assumed once registration as a
Pharmacist Intern is complete. (starting date will be 01 January 2026
POST 37/173 : PHARMACY INTERN, REF NO: NCDOH: 116/2025 (X1 POSTS)
(1 year Contract)
SALARY : R440 226 per annum, (TCE package)
CENTRE : Manne Dipico Hospital (Colesberg)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Pharmacy accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council
(SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Intern.
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist
Intern before commencement of duty. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills):
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Knowledge of and ability to comply with applicable Pharmacy legislation,
National and Provincial Health policies.
DUTIES : Adherence to policies, procedures, and expenditure control. All duties will be
performed under the direct supervision of a Pharmacist. Assist with the training,
education and development of pharmacy staff and other health workers, and
promotion of public health. Effective medicine supply management to ensure
the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Leadership by demonstrating initiative in addressing
problems. Provision of Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation,
dispensing of medication and provision of information to ensure patient
compliance and therapeutic success. Quality Management by demonstrating
compliance with National Core Standards, Occupational Health & Safety
control, and Good Pharmacy practices.
ENQUIRIES : L Vertue Tel N: 053 8302702
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
NOTE : Preference will be given to Northern Cape Bursary holders and applicants
residing in the Northern Cape. Accommodation during Pharmacist Internship
will not be provided. Duty can only be assumed once registration as a
Pharmacist Intern is complete. (starting date will be 01 January 2026
POST 37/174 : DIETICIAN REF NO: NCDOH 117/2025 (1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233.per annum
Grade 2: R463 941.per annum
127
Grade 3: R543 099.per annum: (12% Rural Allowance may be paid)
CENTRE : Warrenton CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for the required registration with the
HPCSA in the relevant profession. Registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession. Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an appropriate
qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA),
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council (HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect of RSA
qualified employees who performed Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ experience after registration with the
Health Professional Council (HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect of
RSA qualified employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. skills profile: Report writing skills, Computer Literacy,
Interpersonal skills, Teamwork, Resource management (human and other
resources), Information Management, Time Management, Planning and
execution, Initiative, Communication and presentation skills, Ability to facilitate
trainings.
DUTIES : Nutrition management of patients, Nutrition Education, Promotion and
Advocacy, Quality assurance of nutrition related services, Collaborations with
Relevant Stakeholders, Monitor and Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad, Tel: 053 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances
Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand
deliver at the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green
street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to: ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za
Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 37/175 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER REF NO: 118/2025 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233.per annum
Grade 2: R463 941.per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Professor ZK Matthews Hospital (X1 Post)
Connie Vorster Hospital (X1 Post)
Pampierstad CHC (X1 Post)
Jan Kempdorp CHC (X1 Post)
Warrenton CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma or equivalent NQF 6 qualifications in
Environmental Health. Must have completed one-year community service as
an Environmental Health Practitioner. Registration with HPCSA as an
Environmental Health Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None experience,
after registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as an
Environmental Health Practitioner. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professional Council as an
environmental health practitioner, in respect of RSA qualified employees who
performed community service in South Africa, Minimum of 11 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professional Council (HPCSA) in
the relevant profession in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council as an environmental health practitioner, in respect of RSA
qualified employees who performed community service in South Africa,
Minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council (HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Competencies: Thorough knowledge of the
Environmental Health programme and objectives. Good communication skills
(written and verbal) well as computer literacy. Must have interpersonal
relations. Adherence to the Batho Pele principles. Must have problem-solving,
decision-making and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge:
National Health Act, Environmental Health norms and standard as well relevant
prescripts.
DUTIES : Monitor the health care waste management at Hospitals and Community
Health Centres. Assist in the maintenance of pest control. Assist in the water
monitoring. Perform inspection on the provision of food and general hygiene in
128
the institution. Assist the hospital mortuary with the safe disposal of the
deceased. Conduct awareness and training on health and hygiene issues.
Ensure safe use of chemicals within the institution. Inspection of baggage,
cargo, container, conveyances, good and postal parcels for compliance with
relevant health regulations and legislation. Provide communicable diseases
control excluding immunization. Provide general administrative duties. Compile
weekly and monthly statistics as well as when required. Engage with relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad, Tel: 053 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances
Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand
deliver at the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green
street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to: ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za
Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 37/176 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GENERAL NURSING, REF NO: NCDOH
119/2025 (17 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384.- R382 107.per annum
Grade 2: R396 132.- R466 623.per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 - R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing College
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with
SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience
appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years’ experience appropriate/Recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander/Ms. M Visser Tel: 053-802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/177 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GENERAL NURSING), REF NO: NCDOH
120/2025 (X 3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458.per annum
Grade 2: R396 132. – R459 726.per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638.per annum
CENTRE : Aggeneys Clinic (1 Post)
Springbok Hospital (1 Post)
Williston CHC (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders.
129
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom, Ms. EA Cloete, Tel No: (027) 712 1601 / (027) 712 1078
(Namakwa District)
APPLICATIONS : Applications for Namakwa District: Application must be e-mailed to
namakwaapplications@gmail.com and hand delivered or couriered via postal
services to 7 Rivierstreet, Springbok, Postal address: Private Bag X10,
Springbok, 8240. Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
POST 37/178 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GENERAL) REF NO: NCDOH 121/2025 (12
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458.per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726.per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638.per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10)
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing, Grade 3: A minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures. Adopt
multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care. Maintain
clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing care are
implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records. Maintain client
satisfaction through quality service innovation and professional nursing care by
upholding the Batho Pele principles and patient’s rights. Implementation of
standards to ensure adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital
measures. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to workday and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel no: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or e-mailed at
vacanciesdhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/179 : SUPERVISORY LEVEL CLERK (FINANCE) REF NO: NCDOH 61/2025 (1
POST)
(Re – Advertisement – previous candidates do not need to re-apply)
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (salary 7)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Accounts Payable)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate tertiary qualification Bachelors Degree / National Diploma in
Accounting, Finance or Cost Management with 0-2 years’ experience in the
relevant field. Competencies: Knowledge of basic understanding of the
legislative framework governing the public service such as DORA, PFMA,
Treasury regulations, etc. Knowledge of financial accounting practices and
framework. Knowledge financial operating systems (BAS). Basic analytical and
problem-solving skills. Good verbal and written communications skills. Good
interpersonal and report writing skills. Computer literacy (MS-Word, Excel and
Power Point).
DUTIES : Safekeeping of expenditure batches within the expenditure unit. Validation of
documentation. Payment authorization. Assist in ensuring that all creditors are
paid within the prescribed timeframe. Supervise and monitor the work of
subordinates. Submit activity reports to supervisors. Assist in providing of
reliable financial information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mothapo, Tel no (053) 833 576.
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
130
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/180 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 REF NO: NCDOH 122/2025 (4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614.per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932.per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107.per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse Registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: No experience required,
Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with SANC as a Staff nurse Grade 3: A minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals. Implementation of
standards to ensure adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital
measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel no: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or e-mailed at
vacanciesdhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 37/181 : STAFF NURSE REF NO: NCDOH 123/2025 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 – R246 798.per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 - R294 513.per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R376 458. per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse, Registration
with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None, Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Providing direct patient
care, administering medications, monitoring vital signs, performing basic
wound care, assisting with patient hygiene and maintaining patient records.
Willing to rotate through department and work night duty. Maintain professional
growth / ethical standards and self-development. Work as part of a
multidisciplinary team and support the managers to ensure quality nursing
care.
ENQUIRES : Ms V Pearce Operational Manager Speciality, Tel No: (053) 802 3604
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
131
POST 37/182 : NURSING ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 124/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305.per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286.per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513.per annum
CENTRE : Pofadder CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit current proof of registration with SANC as a Nursing
assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
experience after registration with SANC as a nursing assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ experience after registration with SANC as a nursing
assistant. Skills Profile: Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures,
nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act,
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-
Pele principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary
Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc, Elementary communication
skills Elementary writing skills Ability to function as part of a team Interpersonal
skills, Responsiveness Pro-activeness Professionalism Accuracy Flexibility
Initiative Cooperation Team player Supportive Assertive.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care): Maintain hygiene of
patient; Provide nutrition; Assist with mobility; Assist with elimination
processes. Provide elementary clinical nursing care: Measure, interpret and
record vital signs; Operate all relevant apparatus and equipment; Assist
professional nurses with clinical procedures (i.e. administering of oral
medication); Preparation of patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures;
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development: To
maintain the code of conduct as required in the Public Service and by the
Professional Body; Seek learning opportunities, i.e. in-service training,
courses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom, Ms. EA Cloete, Tel No: (027) 712 1601 / (027) 712 1078
(Namakwa District)
APPLICATIONS : for Namakwa District: Application must be e-mailed to
namakwaapplications@gmail.com and hand delivered or couriered via postal
services to 7 Rivierstreet, Springbok, Postal address: Private Bag X10,
Springbok, 8240.Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered
POST 37/183 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE REF NO: NCDOH 125/2025 (13 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R 196 305.pee anum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286.per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513.per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant
(Enrolled Nurse assistant). Experience: Grade 1: No experience required,
Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living. Provide elementary clinical nursing
care. Maintain professional Growth /ethical standards and self-development.
Maintain hygiene of patients. Provide nutrition. Assist with elimination process.
Measure, interpret and record vital signs. Operate all relevant apparatus and
equipment. Assist professional nurses with clinical procedures. Preparation of
patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures. Maintain the code of conduct
as required in the Public Service. Implementation of standards to ensure
adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel no: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacanciesdhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
132
POST 37/184 : NURSING ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 126/2025 (11 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305.per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286.per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None,
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Maintain patient privacy and confidentiality plus provide optimal patient care
Assist with elimination processes. Provide elementary nursing care. Measure,
interpret and record vital signs Assisting with activities of daily living
(Maintaining hygiene, provide nutrition, and assist with mobility and elimination
process). Provide elementary clinical care (Measures, interprets and record
vital signs. Escort patients for clinical investigation when required. Conduct
health education and other group activities for patients. Participate in infection
Prevention and control activities. Report and record patient incidents as per
Hospital Protocols. Maintain professional conduct as required by the public
Service Code of Conduct and SANC. Attend in-service training as required.
Relieve in other wards when necessary. Must be willing to workday and night
shifts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Pearce Operational Manager Speciality, Tel No: 053 802 3604
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
133
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST PROVINCE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts and
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference. An
indication in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. During the current financial year,
the EE targets for the Department are: African Females for Persons with Disabilities on salary levels 8 to
10; African Females on salary levels 11 to 13. Indian Males on salary levels 7 to 12 positions. Candidates
within these categories are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : The Head of Department, Department of Community Safety and Transport
Management, Private Bag x19, MMABATHO, 2735 Office No. 105, 1st Floor,
Tirelo Building, Cnr Albert Luthuli Drive and Dr. James Moroka Drive, for
Attention Kegomoditswe Makaota Office NO. 0182008258 or email to the
relevant e-mail address associated with the post applied for.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
NOTE : (Posted, Handed and E-mailed Applications must have reached The
Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online, as a rule not be
accepted). on the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All applications must be emailed to the
correct indicated email address. All attachments for Online Submission must
include Only Z83 Form and an Updated Curriculum Vitae in PDF Format and
be emailed to the correct email address, as one document. Failure to do so,
your application will be disqualified. Compliance Note: Applications must be
submitted on the improved Z83, approved to be utilized with effect 01 January
2021, which must be completed in such a manner that provides sufficient
information about your candidature and the post applied for by completing all
relevant fields. The declaration must be signed and initials on the second page
are not mandatory. Should the applicant/s use incorrect application form for
employment (Z83), or not compliant to the notes, the application/s will not be
considered for selection purposes (disqualified). The Z83 must be
accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae with at least three (3) names of
referees with current contact details. Subjects of relevant qualification/s should
be mentioned in the CV. Completion of the Z83 form: Part A: All fields must be
fully completed. Part B: Date of birth and ID number are compulsory and other
fields may be left blank, marked as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they
do not apply to you or the position applied for and as long as the CV has been
attached and provides the required information. Part C, D, E, F and G may be
left blank, marked as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply
to you or the position applied for and as long as the CV has been attached and
provides the required information, however question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-
employment into the Public Service. Applicants do not have to submit
copies//proof/certificates/attachments/drivers licence/qualifications on
application. Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. The employment
application form (Z83) is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department,
and it is accessible on the DPSA web-site, www.dpsa.gov.za Failure to submit
or comply with the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Should the applicant fail to submit or not comply with the requested
documents, or not meet minimum requirements of the job as per the post
advertised, this will result in the employment application not being considered.
Qualifications of shortlisted candidates will be verified with SAQA. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish this Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Positions requiring tertiary qualification/s must be accompanied by copies of
academic record/transcript(s). Candidates must indicate the number of the
post/reference number in their applications. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding an advertised post must direct their queries to the person
reflected as enquiries below the post applied for. Applications should be
forwarded in time to the department since applications received after the
closing date indicated below will as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected
of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department. The Department reserves the right not to
make appointments and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
134
candidates only. Personnel suitability check records will be conducted.
Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company
or conducting any business with organ of State. They must also disclose or
inform whether he/she is performing any additional remunerative work outside
his /her normal duties. All appointments are subjected to a positive
qualification’s verification as well as security clearance. SMS appointments are
also subjected to SMS competency assessment as a DPSA requirement. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts and positions with requisite skills will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Applicants who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate
shall be considered for shortlisting and interviews but cannot be appointed
before they successfully obtain the certificate. (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) is
offered by the National School of Government. Information can be accessed
via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post must be in
possession of such, prior to taking up the post. NB: Salary level 1 to 12: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to practical exercise and integrity
assessment test.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 37/185 : DIRECTOR – POLICY POLICING AND RESEARCH REF NO: 43/2025/26
Directorate: Policy And Research
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification in Development
studies, Social Science, Public Policy or Research as recognised by SAQA
coupled with five (5) years’ experience at a middle/ senior managerial level
within the Policy and Research Environment. A valid driver’s license. Computer
Literacy. Knowledge: Strong track record of publication and research report
writing. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and strategies. Knowledge
of Public Service Act, Rules and Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Policy Development and Formulation. Knowledge in
research and policy development methodologies. Understanding of the Civilian
Secretariat for Police Service Act. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication Skills: Analytical skills,
Report Writing, policy development and analysis, ability to work independently
and under pressure. Verbal and written communication skills at a high level.
Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Have the ability to generate new
ideas and improve where circumstances require. Be able to formulate, write
reports and communicate at the highest level. Must have good interpersonal
skills and be able to maintain a positive interpersonal relations and be able to
work as part of team and as an individual.
DUTIES : Manage, Coordinate and facilitate the provision of quality research into any
matter and report in support Provincial/National policy imperative. Manage,
coordinate and facilitate the review of Provincial/National policies and
strategies. Coordinate and facilitate and Develop provincial secretariat
research or evaluation agenda. Analyse crime trends, rate of convictions and
crime statistics. Review Provincial frameworks/strategies, tools and plans on
policing matters. Create a resource information centre. Provide strategic
leadership. Disseminate policy and research findings to inform departmental
strategies. Management of internal and external stakeholders from policy and
research department. Manage resources of the sub-Directorate. Implement
effective budget planning and financial management of the department‘s
resources
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MC Rantona Tel: 018 200 8030
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment01@nwpg.gov.za
135
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/186 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT REF NO: 44/2025/26
Directorate: Monitoring And Oversight
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12). The inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension
Fund, medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of Applicable rules. The
successful candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign
employee contract.
CENTRE : Bojanala District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus Bachelor’s Degree in Law. Five (5) to
ten (10) years’ relevant work experience in Monitoring and Oversight within the
safety and security environment of which three (3) years must be at Junior
Management (Assistant Director) level. Valid Code EB (08) Driving License.
Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Safety and Security Policies, Transformation Policies, National Crime
Prevention Strategy (NCPS)/Integrated Crime and Violence Prevention
Strategy (ICVPS), South African Police Service Act and Policies, Performance
and Resources Management. Knowledge of Civilian Secretariat for Police
Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations. Skills: Computer literacy. Monitoring and Evaluation. Research.
Investigations. Project Management skills. Communications. Conflict
Management skills. Policy Analysis. Ability to interpret policies. Facilitation and
Good presentation skills. Interpersonal and report writing skills. Good verbal
and written communication. Ability to function independently and as a team.
Ability to work under pressure and long hours. Problem-solving skills and
decision-making.
DUTIES : Provide Civilian Oversight of the South African Police Service (SAPS): Oversee
research and analyze data on Policing. Manage and Monitor transformation of
the SAPS. Manage and Monitor SAPS infrastructure development plan.
Manage and maintain an effective complaints management system and
conduct investigation of complaints. Manage and Monitor determination of
Policing needs and priorities. Manage and Monitor of SAPS compliance to
Domestic Violence Act. Conduct oversight through Police Station visits, based
on the implementation of the National Monitoring and Evaluation Tool. Manage
and Monitor implementation of IPID Recommendations by the SAPS. Manage
and Review Monitoring Tools, Frameworks, Guidelines and development of
policies. Compile reports. Manage key responsibilities of Subordinates.
Management of Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D. Letsapa Tel. 018 200 8091/2
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment02@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/187 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION OFFICER REF NO:
45/2025/26
re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply)
Directorate: Office of the Executive Authority
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund,
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent plus appropriate National Diploma/
Bachelors Degree /NQF 6 in Public Administration/Public
Management/Business Administration/Local Government. A minimum of three
five (5) years’ experience within administration environment of which three (3)
years should be at Assistant Director level. A valid driver`s licence. Knowledge
And Skills: Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas
covered by the executive authority`s portfolio. Working knowledge of the
political and parliamentary processes in South Africa. Proven management
competencies. Knowledge of Cabinet Administration. Knowledge of Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Project Management. Communication Skills
(Verbal and Written). Negotiation skills. Report writing. Presentation skills.
Computer literacy. Problem solving skills.
136
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
Executive authority. Manage the procurement and maintenance of equipment’s
and administer the budget in the office of the executive authority. Manage the
Logistical support in the office of the executive authority for meetings and
related activities. Render a Cabinet/Executive council support service to the
executive authority. Liaise with internal and external role-players matters
relating to the Portfolio of the Executive authority. Ensure quality control of the
work delivered and managing the distribution of documents and submissions
to the relevant Legislature and standing/portfolio committees. Provide
operational leadership for administrative support services in the office
Executive Authority (EA). Plan, coordinate, organise and facilitate provision of
registry and all frontline and customer care services. Plan, coordinate and
provide general supervision of the employees in the office of the executive
authority. Assist office of the Executive Authority with role playing on
stakeholder service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Scheepers: Tel. 018 200 8003
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment03@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/188 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CENTRAL COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE REF NO:
46/2025/26
Directorate: Road Traffic Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund,
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office: Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent plus three years National Diploma/ Bachelors
Degree qualification NQF level 6/7 or equivalent qualifications as recognized
by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) - An undergraduate
qualification in Statistics or communications will be an added advantage -
Seven (7) to Ten (10) years working experience in road traffic management
field of which three (3) years must be at Junior Management/Assistant Director
level in a related field - Valid driving license. Core And Process Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem
solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Road Traffic and Safety Acts, negotiation
skills, conflict resolution, problem solving and Presentation skills, ability to
communicate at all levels. Ability to analyse the findings and make
recommendations, understanding of the legislative framework governing the
public service i.e., Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation. Public service
knowledge, negotiations, Public Service Knowledge, high level report writing
and computer skills.
DUTIES : Manage operations of a road traffic communication Centre - Ensure effective
and efficient leadership in the Communication Centre - Manage provision of
statistical information on Provincial crash data to relevant structures - Manage
provision and support to the District Communication Centres and Traffic
Officers - Coordination and consolidation of reports - Ensure appropriate use
of all allocated resources – Manage received calls on road safety matters from
road users
ENQUIRES : Mr. P Stone: Tel.no.018 381 9110/9104
APLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment04@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/189 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GENDER FOCAL POINT & DIVERSITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 47/2025/26
Chief Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund,
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of Applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
137
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public Management/Public Administration/Social
Science as recognised by SAQA coupled with five (5) years relevant
experience in Gender Focal Point & Diversity Management of which three (3)
years should be Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Project Management. Understanding of government’s broader transformation
of policies and initiatives. Knowledge of promoting Human Rights. Knowledge
of Gender and Disability Mainstreaming. Knowledge of Moral Regeneration
and Social Cohesion. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power
Point). Report Writing. Change Management. Good stakeholder engagement
skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate external & internal educational awareness campaigns
for designated groups therefore women, children, youth, older person and
persons with disabilities, financial workshops, career guidance and any other
awareness related to safety of people in support of Human Rights Priority
Programmes. Coordinate submission of reports on employment to reach 50%
of women in Senior Management Services and 2% in the employment of
people with disability. Develop plans and coordinate reports on implementation
of gender Equality Strategic Framework, Job Access Strategic Framework,
HoD’s 8 principle Action Plan and report on harassment in the workplace.
Participate in commemoration of international and national days as per
calendar events. Provide sound strategic leadership and Direction. Manage the
Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRES : Mr. P Mohono: Tel.no.018 200 8022
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment05@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/190 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EVALUATION REF NO: 48/2025/26
(One Year Employment Contract)
Directorate: Strategic Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund,
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus Post Graduate Degree in Public Management
within the sector of Monitoring and Evaluation plus minimum experience of five
(5) years in Research of which three (3) years should be at Assistant Director
level. Valid driving license. Knowledge: Understand government systems in
relation to the evaluation. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Understand ethical issues relating to evaluation, including potential or
actual conflict of interest. Skills: Computer Literacy. Strong Project
Management Skills. Research Skills. Interpersonal Skills and Presentation
skills. Report writing skills. Communication Skills. Conflict Management Skills.
Policy Analysis and Evaluation. Ability to manage different stakeholders.
DUTIES : Provide leadership to the Evaluation team in completing projects effectively.
Conduct research/collect evidence and analysis of evidence. Assess issues
such as relevance (effectiveness and efficiency) value for money, impact and
sustainability and recommendations. Manage evaluation resources to deliver
high quality evaluation and related objectives on time to appropriate standards.
Compile reports.
ENQUIRES : Mr M Moiloa, Tel (018) 200 8376
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment06@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/191 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER –MR 6 REF NO: 49/2025/26
re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
Reapply)
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent plus LLB Degree or equivalent relevant
qualification. At least eight (8) years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Extensive experience at Supervisory level in Civil Litigations,
legislative drafting, drafting of legal opinions, labour relations practices in the
Public Service, contract drafting and interpretation. Valid drivers license and
138
willingness to travel. Knowledge: Sound knowledge of the legislative
frameworks that governs the operations of the public services environment. A
sound knowledge of on the drafting of legislations and regulations. A sound
knowledge on the interpretation of statutes and regulations and other legal
instruments. A sound knowledge on formulating legal advice and opinions in
relation to legislations and regulations. A comprehensive knowledge on the
process of legislative drafting. A comprehensive knowledge on the drafting and
interpretation of policies. SKILLS: Good interpersonal relations. Report writing.
Case investigation and project management skills. Good conflict resolutions
and mediation skills. Computer literacy. Ability to work in a team as well as
independently. Communication skills. Ability to conduct research on legislative
and civil litigation processes.
DUTIES : Study the impact and implications of Legislations and Regulations and advice
the Department accordingly. Examine the various forms of Legislations and
Regulations that impact upon the Department and determine whether there is
a need to amend or repeal same. Interpret, draft and/or facilitate the
amendment or repeal of laws and subordinate legislations. Drafting of legal
advice and opinions in relation to legislations and regulations. Manage the
legislative review process in collaboration with the State Law Advisers. Edit and
certify legislations in collaboration with the State Law Advisers Office. Render
legal support services in respect of litigation matters for and against the
Department. Furnish legal advice and opinions on litigation matters that affect
the Department. Perform generic management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Mohono: Tel no. 018 200 8022
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment07@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/192 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY AND RESEARCH REF NO: 50/2025/26
Directorate: Policy Policing and Research
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent plus three (3) years tertiary qualifications in
Public Administration/Management/Statistics/Research/Social
Science/Economics (NQF level 6/7). Three (3) to Five (5) years relevant
experience in management and policing environment of which Two (2) years
must be at supervisory level in the functional policy and research development.
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public Service Legislations, Research
Methodologies and Data gathering techniques, Safety and Security policies,
Transformation policies, Integrated Crime and Violence Prevention Strategy,
South African Police Service (SAPS) policies, Performance and Resources
management, Acceptable understanding of the PFMA. Skills: Knowledge and
expertise in policy analysis and development, research methodology, project
management. Organizing and Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Research,
Investigations, Report writing skills, Communication skills, Conflict
Management, Leadership and People Management, Stakeholder Engagement
and Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Conduct research on policing matters (National and Provincial Research
Projects) .Develop and review frameworks/guidelines on aspects of policing,
crime prevention, community development and stakeholder’s coordination.
Conduct analysis of all Policing and legislation relevant to crime prevention,
monitoring and oversight in the sector. Analyse crime trends, rate of conviction
and crime statistics. Direct and supervise all subordinates, monitor
implementation of all resources.
ENQUIRES : Ms M.C Rantona Tel (018) 200 8030
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment08@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/193 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT REF NO:
51/2025/26
Directorate: Monitoring And Oversight
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Bojanala District (1 Post)
DR Kenneth Kaunda District (1 Post)
DR Ruth Segomotsi Mompati (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree
in Law. Three (3) to Five (05) years’ relevant work experience in Monitoring and
Oversight within the safety and security environment of which two (2) years
139
must be at supervisory level. Valid Code EB (08) Driving License. Knowledge:
Extensive knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Safety and
Security Policies, Transformation Policies, National Crime Prevention Strategy
(NCPS)/Integrated Crime and Violence Prevention Strategy (ICVPS), South
African Police Service Policies, Performance and Resources Management.
Knowledge of Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations. Skills: Computer literacy. Monitoring and
Evaluation. Research. Investigations. Project Management. Communications.
Conflict Management skills. Policy Analysis. Ability to interpret policies. Good
facilitation and presentation skills. Initiative and good interpersonal
relationship. Report writing skills. Good verbal and written communication.
Ability to function independently and as a team. Ability to work under pressure
and long hours. Problem-solving skills and decision-making.
DUTIES : Civilian Oversight of the South African Police Service (SAPS): Supervise and
conduct research and analyse data on Policing. Supervise and monitor
transformation of the SAPS. Monitor SAPS infrastructure development plan.
Receive and conduct investigation of service delivery related complaints.
Conduct determination of Policing needs and priorities. Monitor SAPS
compliance to Domestic Violence Act. Conduct oversight through Police
Station visits, based on the implementation of the National Monitoring and
Evaluation Tool. Monitor implementation of IPID Recommendations by the
SAPS. Participate in the review of the Monitoring Tools, Frameworks,
Guidelines and development of policies. Compile reports. Supervise key
responsibilities of Subordinates. Management of Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D. Letsapa. Tel. 018 200 8091/2
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment09@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/194 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT REF NO:
52/2025/26
Directorate: Monitoring And Oversight
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Ngaka Modiri Molema (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree
in Law. Three (3) to Five (05) years’ relevant work experience in Monitoring and
Oversight within the safety and security environment of which two (2) years
must be at supervisory level. Valid Code EB (08) Driving License. Knowledge:
Extensive knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Safety and
Security Policies, Transformation Policies, National Crime Prevention Strategy
(NCPS)/Integrated Crime and Violence Prevention Strategy (ICVPS), South
African Police Service Policies, Performance and Resources Management.
Knowledge of Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations. Skills: Computer literacy. Monitoring and
Evaluation. Research. Investigations. Project Management. Communications.
Conflict Management skills. Policy Analysis. Ability to interpret policies. Good
facilitation and presentation skills. Initiative and good interpersonal
relationship. Report writing skills. Good verbal and written communication.
Ability to function independently and as a team. Ability to work under pressure
and long hours. Problem-solving skills and decision-making.
DUTIES : Provide Civilian Oversight of the South African Police Service (SAPS) by:
consultation with complainants, conduct investigations into complaints related
to police inefficiencies and/or breakdown in relations between police and
community, supervise the investigation Unit to ensure compliance with the
complaints management framework and case flow management system,
Monitor implementation of IPID Recommendations by the SAPS. Implement
the Court Watching Brief programme, compile and submit investigation and
monthly reports, and statistics, guide and supervise investigations and
Supervise key responsibilities of Subordinates. Management of Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D. Letsapa Tel. 018 200 8091/2
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/195 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CRIME PREVENTION REF NO: 53/2025/26
Chief Directorate: Provincial Secretariat for Police Service
Directorate: Crime Prevention Partnerships
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : DR Kenneth Kauda (1 Post)
140
Bojanala (1 Post) Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus three (3) year National Diploma/
Degree in Social Sciences, Community Development or any related equivalent
qualification. Three (3) to Five (5) years’ relevant work experience in within
Crime Prevention Partnerships or Safety & Security environment of which two
(2) years must be at supervisory level. Valid Code EB (08) Driver`s License.
Knowledge: Knowledge and Understanding of the National Crime Prevention
Strategy. Knowledge of the SAPS Act. Knowledge of the Civilian Secretariat
Act. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Understanding of Public
Financial Management Act. Knowledge of Safety Management. Public Service
Code of Conduct. Skills: Community Mobilisation. Coordination and facilitation.
Negotiation and resource mobilization. Interpersonal and Report writing.
Programme and project management skills. Client orientation and customer
focus. Basic research and data analysis skills. Ability to interpret policies.
Facilitation and Good presentation skills. Good verbal and written
communication. Computer literacy (Microsoft, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to
function independently and as a team. Willingness to travel and work irregular
hours. Problem solving skills and decision making. Conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Mobilise communities against Crime. Establish and promote public –private
partnerships. Promote community police relations. Enhance community safety
structures within the districts. Enhance the quality and accessibility of safety
programmes. Review and implement Provincial Crime Prevention Strategies.
Manage key performance responsibilities of the managed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. KF Nchoe, Tel. Nr 018 200 8096/8097
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment11@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/196 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 54/2025/26
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public Management/Public
Administration/Administration/Industrial Psychology as recognised by SAQA
coupled with three (3) to five (5) years relevant experience in Change
Management of which two (2) years must be at a OD Practitioner/ Senior OD
Practitioner Level (Level 7/8). A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge
of Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management
Act, Treasury Regulations and HR practice and procedures. Knowledge of
DPSA resolutions and guidelines. Change Management tools, principles and
methodologies. Customer Care (Batho Pele Principles). Skills: Good
Communication Skills (Verbal and Writing), Good Interpersonal, report writing,
Project Management, Presentation, and facilitation skills. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate the integration of Service Delivery Improvement Plans. Monitor the
coordination of Change Management Engagement Programmes. Coordinate
the implementation of Batho Pele programme within the Department. Monitor
the Coordination and preparation of Departmental Annual Citizens Report.
Conduct individual and organisational climate and culture surveys. Manage all
performed administrative activities and key responsibilities of staff.
ENQUIRES : Ms. K Twasing Tel: 018 200 8076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment12@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/197 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN REF NO: 55/2025/26
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Management Services/Production
Management/Operations Management/industrial Psychology as recognised by
SAQA coupled with three (3) to five (5) years relevant experience in
Organisational Development of which two (2) years must be at a OD
Practitioner/ Senior OD Practitioner Level (Level 7/8). A valid driver’s license.
Job Evaluation certificate is essential. Knowledge: Knowledge of Directive on
changes to organisational structure by departments. Organisational Design
principles and procedures. Organisational Functionality Assessment. Business
Process Management. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Public
141
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and HR
practice and procedures. DPSA guide on Job Description and Knowledge of
Job Evaluation System. Knowledge of Org-Plus Knowledge of Occupation
Specification Dispensation. Work Study Techniques. Skills: Good
Communication Skills (Verbal and Writing), Good Interpersonal, report writing,
Project Management, Presentation, and facilitation skills. Computer Literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Org-Plus, Bizagi/Visio and Compensate-Evaluate System)
DUTIES : Manage the development and design of departmental organisational structure.
Ensure facilitation of Job Descriptions development process for all employees
within the department. Manage the process of conducting Analysis, Evaluation
and Grading of posts. Manage rendering of Job Design Services within the
Department. Conduct Organisational Functionality Assessment in the
Department. Conduct Business Process Mapping in the Department. Manage
and assist in the development of job specifications. Manage all performed
administrative activities and key responsibilities of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Twasing Tel: 018 200 8076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/198 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESEARCH REF NO: 56/2025/26
Directorate: Strategy And Planning
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public
Administration/Management/Statistics/Research/Social
Science/Economics/Monitoring and Evaluation as recognised by SAQA
coupled with three (3) to five (5) years relevant experience in Research or
Evaluation within the public service of which two (2) years must be at a
Supervisory Level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Understanding of
Research methodology. Sound knowledge of Revised Framework for Strategic
Plans and Annual Performance Plans and related policies. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management
Act, Treasury Regulations. Skills: Good Communication Skills (Verbal and
Writing), Good Interpersonal, report writing, Project Management,
Presentation, and facilitation skills. Computer Literacy (Strong proficiency in
Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Statistical software such as SPSS).
Ability to work under extreme pressure and travel extensively.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of research systems in the Department.
Develop and review of the departmental research policy. Conduct data analysis
and produce reports on implementation of departmental research policy.
Coordinating engagements in the planning, conceptualisation and execution of
research studies. Review, analyse and quality assure research outputs
(proposals, fieldwork plans, data collection instruments, research reports to
ensure alignment with Terms of Reference, research plans and strategic
outcomes. Ensure planning and coordination of data collection processes and
reporting. Participate in relevant Departmental, Provincial and National
engagements related to research. Manage human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MJ Moiloa 018 2008376
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment11@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/199 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 57/2025/26
(This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to Reapply)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : head office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) year National Diploma/Bachelors Degree
in Public Administration /Public Management/Supply Chain
Management/Logistic Management/Financial Management or related. Three
(3) to Five (5) years work experience in Supply Chain Management, preferably
in Acquisition Management Unit of which two (2) years must be at supervisory
level. Knowledge: Knowledge of Walker Financial Management System.
Knowledge of Legislations/Acts governing SCM (PPPFA, PFMA & Treasury
Regulations). Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of Public
142
Service Regulations Act. Skills: Advanced computer literate and Leadership
abilities, interpersonal skill, written and verbal communication, Conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Develop, design, implement and manage acquisition management processes
and systems as well as internal controls, and audit trails across all levels in the
department in order to ensure effective and efficient service delivery as well as
compliance with the polices and prescript. Design, review and manage
implementation of strategic sourcing techniques. Oversee secretariat duties to
Bid Specification Committee, Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid Adjudication
Committee thereof. Ensure the management and maintenance of departmental
contracts are in accordance with Treasury Regulations, PFMA and Service
Level Agreement. Provide strategic support, advice and guidance to all
responsible managers to ensure compliance with supply chain management
prescripts and guideline. Ensure compliance with Central Supplier Database.
Supervise and compile tender/ quotation specification as required. Manage all
the resources allocated to sub-directorate. Supervise, develop and manage
employees performance in accordance with the Employee Performance
Management and Development System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Lembe Tel No: 018 200 8088
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment12@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/200 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATOR LICENCE & PERMITS REF NO:
58/2022/23
This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply
Directorate: Operator License and Permits
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Mahikeng – Head Office (X1 Post)
DR.RSM (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent, plus a three year National
Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in Transport Management environment. Three (3)
to Five (5) years relevant working experience in Operator License and Permits,
of which Two (2) years must be at Supervisory Level. Valid Drivers license
(Code 8). Knowledge: Knowledge of the National Land Transport Act No.5 of
2009 and National Land Transport Regulations of 2009, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Revenue Act, Public Service Act and Regulations.
Knowledge of Public Service Prescripts. Skills: Computer literacy (familiar with
the use of Operating License Administration System (OLAS) and Registration
Administration System (RAS) and Natis). Good interpersonal relations. Good
written and verbal communication skills. Presentation skills. Filing system
skills. Creative, Assertive and Confident approach. Reliable and ability to work
under pressure and Ability to work as an individual and as a team.
DUTIES : Administer, monitor and oversee the business flow of the district. Prepare and
advice the Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE) on all matters to be adjudicated
including Transport Appeal Tribunal (TAT) matters. Offer Secretariat services
to PRE. Compile monthly and quarterly reports. Administer and report on the
usage of face values. Daily review of Operating License Administration System
(OLAS) report, and verify whether all cash received has been deposited
accordingly. Once every week prepare statistics of number of operating
licenses issued and consolidate at the end of the month. Supervise key
performance of the managed.
ENQUIRIES : B Bopalamo Tel No: 018 3819100
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment13@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/201 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR- EXPENDITURE (FINANCIAL REPORTING) REF.
NO: 59/2025/26
(This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent plus three (3) years National
Diploma/Bachelor Degree in Accounting/Cost and Management
Accounting/Internal Auditing /Financial Management. Three (3) to Five (5)
years’ experience in Public Service Financial Accounting environment of which
143
two (2) years must be at supervisory level. BAS certificates should be attached
and a valid driver’ licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, BAS, Modified Cash Standard (MCS) & Accounting Manual for
Departments (AMD), Auditing and Financial reporting. Skills: Numerical skills,
Problem solving skills, Planning and organizing skills, Communication (verbal
and written) skills, Computer literacy. Interpersonal Attributes: Ability to work in
a team, Ability to work under pressure and to cope with a high workload.
DUTIES : Compiling the Annual Financial Statements and Interim Financial Statements
in line with the Preparation Guide as issued by the Office of the Accountant
General, the MCS and the AMD. Attend to all audit queries in respect of the
Financial Statements. Ensure that there is proper audit trail and working papers
(Audit file) in respect of the Financial Statements. Assist in providing financial
inputs into the Annual Report. Assist in developing a project plan for monthly,
quarterly and Annual Financial Statements. Review the monthly general ledger
reconciliations against the trial balance and supporting documentation. Identify
any discrepancies on the general ledger reconciliations and propose corrective
actions. Assist in managing the audit process and other requests for accounting
and reporting. Assist in clearing audit queries and facilitate the development
and implementation of audit action plans. Ensure the implementation of
measures for improving financial reporting (AFS and IFS). Supervise personnel
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. Tswaile Tel. 018 200 8144
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment26@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/202 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: 60/2025/26
(This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply)
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent, plus three (3) year National Diploma/Bachelors Degree
in Human Resource Management/Public Management/Public Administration.
A Three (3) to Five (5) years work experience in Conditions of Service benefits
of which two (2) years must be at a Personnel Practitioner/ Senior Personnel
Practitioner Level (Level 7/8). PERSAL Certificate in Leave and PERSAL
Personnel Administration are mandatory. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Public Service Act, 1994 as amended, Public Service Regulations 2016, Basic
Conditions of employment Act 1997, Code of Conduct in the Public Service,
Labour Relations Act, Government Employee Pension Fund Law of 1996,
Public Finance Management Act, Human Resource Management Policies &
practices, PSCBC Resolutions, Determination on Leave of absence in the
Public Service, Government Employee Housing Scheme (GEHS), Government
Employee Medical Aid Scheme(GEMS).On-line submission of Pension
applications on Pension Case Management(PCM). SKILLS: Ability to interpret
Policies. Practical experience in PERSAL System, and Pension Case
Management. Skilled in the Microsoft Word, EXCEL & PowerPoint. Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work under pressure,
independently, in a team and working awkward hours. Analytical, organizing,
planning, presentation and stakeholder liaison skills. Conflict management &
resolution, negotiation skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to adhere to
strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and review HRM policies related to Conditions of Service
benefits. Manage and monitor the implementation of conditions of service and
benefits such as Leave, resettlement, medical aid, long service award &
recognition, leave gratuity, housing allowance, overtime etc in terms of
applicable PSCBC resolutions. Auditing capped leave days & conduct leave
reconciliation process. Monitor PERSAL Suspense file. Prepare requests for
registering of System Change Control (SCC). Manage the implementation of
service termination process and exit interviews. General administration of
Pension matters. Process admission to Government Employee Pension Fund.
Administer processing of nomination of beneficiaries. Effective and timeous
approval, and authorisation of Persal transactions. Effective On-line approval
of Pension Case Management transactions. Management of employee
performance and development processes and ensure compliance to the PMDS
directives. Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual reports with regard to
operational plans, Risk management registers, and Audit Action plans etc.
144
Manage human resources administration enquiries to ensure the correct
implementation of Human Resource Management policies and practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PK Letebejana, Tel. no.018 200 8052
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment27@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/203 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 61/2025/26
Directorate: Monitoring And Oversight
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : DR Ruth Segomotsi Mompati (1 Post)
Bojanala (1 Post)
DR Kenneth
Kaunda (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus three (3) years National
Diploma/Degree in Law, Para Legal, Administration/Management. Two (2) to
Five (5) years relevant working experience in relevant work environment within
monitoring and oversight environment. Valid Code EB (08) Driving License.
Knowledge: Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act. South African Police
Services (SAPS) Act. Independent Police Investigative Directorate Act. SAPS
Transformation Policies. National Crime Prevention Strategy/Integrated Crime
and Violence Prevention Strategy (ICVPS). Performance and Human
Resource Management Policies, intensive administrative skills and
understanding reporting procedure and Departmental mandate. Skills:
Computer literacy. Monitoring and Oversight. Conflict Management skills.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Organizing and planning. Report
writing. Initiative and good interpersonal relationship. Ability to work under
pressure and long hours. Ability to interpret policies. Ability to function
independently and as a team. Problem solving skills and decision making.
Project skills.
DUTIES : Provide administration to the sub-directorate. Record, organize, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data line function. Update registers and
statistics. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Assist in the development
and planning of M&E Projects. Assist in designing and development of tools
and guidelines for monitoring and oversight programme. Assist in piloting of
M&E tools, recommend challenges in the review of the tool. Assist during the
collection of data and source documents at Police Stations, Districts and
Provincial Offices as well as SAPS Specialised Units. Capture and Analyse
data. Compile individual site reports and provide oversight feedback and
recommendations to the SAPS. Provide support in the implementation of
special projects as identified by the Minister, Secretary of Police, Head of
Provincial Secretary/Head of Department and Member of the Executive
Committee. Manage key performance responsibilities of the managed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D. Letsapa, Tel. Nr 018 200 8091/2
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment28@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/204 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: CRIME PREVENTION PARTNERSHIPS REF
NO: 62/2025/26
Directorate: Crime Prevention Partnerships
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Bojanala (X1 Post)
DR Kenneth Kaunda (X1 Post)
DR Ruth
Segomotsi Mompati (X1 Post)
Ngaka Modiri Molema (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent and three (3) year National Diploma/Degree
in Social Science /Community Development. Two (2) to Five (5) years relevant
working experience in relevant work environment within Crime Prevention
Partnership or safety and security. Valid Code EB (08) Driver`s License.
Knowledge: Knowledge and Understanding of the National Crime Prevention
Strategy. Knowledge of the SAPS Act. Knowledge of the Civilian Secretariat
Act. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Understanding of Public
Financial Management Act. Knowledge of Safety Management. Public Service
Code of Conduct. Skills: Community Mobilisation. Coordination and facilitation.
Negotiation and resource mobilization. Interpersonal skills and Report writing.
Programme and project management skills. Client orientation and customer
focus. Basic research and data analysis skills. Ability to interpret policies.
145
Facilitation and Good presentation skills. Good verbal and written
communication. Computer literacy (Internet, Microsoft, Excel and PowerPoint).
Ability to function independently and as a team. Willingness to travel and work
irregular hours. Problem-solving skills and decision making. Conflict
management skills.
DUTIES : Mobilise Communities against Crime. Establish and promote crime prevention
partnerships. Promote community police relations. Administer assessment
tools. Analyse and interpret data. Compile assessment reports. Manage key
performance responsibilities of the managed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. KF Nchoe, Tel. Nr 018 200 8096/8097
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment30@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/205 : SENIOR ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
63/2025/26
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Management Services/Production
Management/Operations Management/industrial Psychology as recognised by
SAQA coupled with two (2) to five (5) years relevant experience in
Organisational Development. A valid driver’s license. Job Evaluation certificate
will be added as an advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of Directive on
changes to organisational structure by departments. Organisational Design
principles and procedures. Organisational Functionality Assessment. Business
Process Management. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and HR
practice and procedures. DPSA guide on Job Description and Knowledge of
Job Evaluation System. Knowledge of Org-Plus Knowledge of Occupation
Specification Dispensation. Work Study Techniques. Skills: Good
Communication Skills (Verbal and Writing), Good Interpersonal, report writing,
Project Management, Presentation, and facilitation skills. Computer Literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Org-Plus, Bizagi/Visio and Compensate-Evaluate System)
DUTIES : Render the development and design of Departmental Organisational Structure.
Render Job Design services within the Department. Provide assistance and
advice in the development of Job descriptions for all employees within the
department. Conduct Analysis, Evaluation and Grading of posts.
Implementation of DPSA directive and resolutions. Conduct Organisational
Functionality Assessment in the Department. Conduct Business Process
Mapping in the Department. Assist in the development of Job Specifications.
Supervise the key areas of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Twasing Tel: 018 200 8076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment30@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/206 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 64/2025/26
Directorate: Monitoring And Oversight
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : DR Ruth Segomotsi Mompati (X2 Post)
Bojanala (X2 Post)
DR Kenneth Kaunda (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12) certificate or equivalent plus three (3) years National Diploma in
Public Administration/Administration/Public Management. Valid Code EB (08)
Driving License. No experience required. Knowledge: Civilian Secretariat for
Police Service Act. South African Police Services (SAPS) Act. Independent
Police Investigative Directorate Act. SAPS Transformation Policies. National
Crime Prevention Strategy. Performance and Human Resource Management
Policies, intensive administrative skills and understanding reporting procedure
and Departmental mandate. Skills: Computer literacy. Monitoring and
Oversight. Conflict Management skills. Communication skills (verbal and
written). Organizing and planning. Report writing. Initiative and good
interpersonal relationship. Ability to work under pressure and long hours. Ability
to interpret policies. Ability to function independently and as a team. Problem
solving skills and decision making. Project skills.
DUTIES : Provide administration to the sub-directorate. Record, organize, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data line function. Update registers and
146
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of
standard office items. Provide personnel administration clerical support
services within the component by maintaining a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D. Letsapa, Tel. Nr 018 200 8091/2
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment34@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/207 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PLANNING REF NO: 65/2025/26
Directorate: Strategy And Planning
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public Administration/Management or related
qualification as recognised by SAQA). No experience required. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Act, PFMA and Public
Finance Regulations. Sound knowledge of frameworks and policies governing
strategic planning, monitoring & Evaluation. Skills: Planning and Organizing,
Analytical, Report writing, Presentation, Communication and Good
Interpersonal relations skills. Computer Literacy. Ability to work on tight
deadlines and under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide support in the development of the Departmental Annual Performance
Plan, Operational Plan and Standard Operating Procedures in line with
National and Provincial Planning Frameworks. Participate in the development
of strategic planning templates and distribute templates required. Maintain a
records and filing system for strategic planning information including
distribution of approved departmental plans. Assist with arranging and
facilitation of strategic planning sessions. Provide general administrative
support and provide secretarial support during planning meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Menoe Tel: 018 200 8059
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment35@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/208 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: RESEARCH REF NO: 66/2025/26
Directorate: Strategy And Planning
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public
Administration/Management/Statistics/Research/ Monitoring and Evaluation
as recognised by SAQA). No experience required. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Act, PFMA and Public Finance
Regulations. Understanding of Research Methodology and analytical skills.
Skills: Computer Literacy (Strong Proficiency in Miscrosoft Word, Excel,
Powerpoint and Statistical Software such as SPSS). Communication (verbal &
Written), Interpersonal, Presentation and Report Writing skills. Ability to work
under pressure and willingness to travel and work long hours as required.
DUTIES : Support development and implementation of research systems in the
department. Assist with development and review of departmental research
policy. Assist with conducting research, data collection and fieldwork.
Information retrieval and data capturing. Office Administration and filing.
Provide general administrative support for research projects and provide
secretarial support during research meetings, and related sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Menoe Tel: 018 200 8059
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment37@nwpg.gov.za
POST 37/209 : ADMIN OFFICER: CRIME PREVENTION REF NO: 67/2025/26
Chief Directorate: Provincial Secretariat for Police Service
Directorate: Crime Prevention Partnerships
SALARY : R294 321 per annum (Level 7)
147
CENTRE : Bojanala District (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent and three (3) year National Diploma/Degree
in Public Administration /Administration or any related equivalent qualification.
No experience required. Valid Code EB (08) Driver`s License. Knowledge:
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Understanding of Public
Financial Management Act. Knowledge of Public Service Code of Conduct.
Knowledge and understanding of basic procurement processes Skills:
Administration. Coordination and facilitation. Negotiation and resource
mobilization. Interpersonal and Report writing. Good verbal and written
communication. Computer literacy (Microsoft, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to
function independently and as a team. Problem solving skills. Conflict
management skills.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Sub-Directorate. Attend to the
Procurement processes for the Sub-Directorate. Manage all allocated
resources. Compile minutes and reports. Manage key performance
responsibilities of the managed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. KF Nchoe, Tel. 018 200 8096/8097
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment38@nwpg.gov.za
148
ANNEXURE V
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS: WESTERN CAPE, PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post 36/174: Medical Specialist
Grade 1 To 3 (Anaesthesiology) (18 Sessions), Victoria Hospital advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy dated 3 October 2025, with reference number:
POST 36/174 has been cancelled.
Kindly note that the advert for the Post 36/156: Professional Nurse Grade 1 To
3 (General Nursing), Mitchells Plain District Hospital advertised in the Public
Service Vacancy dated 3 October 2025, with reference number: Post 36/156
has been cancelled.
Kindly note that the advert for the Post 35/247: Administration Clerk:
Admissions (X2 Posts) Khayelitsha CHC advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy dated 26 September 2025, with reference number: Post 35/247 has
been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 37/210 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Registration
with the Professions Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5
years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid SA driver’s license. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven leadership abilities and experience
in supervision of staff. Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing
and implementation. Proven knowledge of Public health policies, guidelines
and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Anaesthetics
service of high quality with a patient-centered focus and addressing the burden
of disease in the Worcester Central Ecosystem. Support to major referral
centers in the Drainage area of Worcester hospital by doing Outreach and
support and improving competencies in the District Health System to manage
patients appropriately and impact on wellness in the Geographic area.
Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters. Create a learning environment for junior staff,
and students, both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate
clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen, tel. no. (023) 348-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and/or competency test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
149
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/211 : REGISTRAR (MEDICINE: INTERNAL) (5 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Each
Registrar will be appointed in a specific training complex but could be required
to work across the platform on request. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB and after completion of internal medicine rotations. Effective
leadership & interpersonal skills. Knowledge, expertise and experience with
regards to providing medical services in assessment, diagnosis and treatment
of inpatients and outpatients. Previous research experience and publication.
FCP (SA) Part 1. Post community service experience in Internal Medicine on
an equivalent clinical platform.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical Service Provision. Participate in the
teaching program. Effective Clinical Administration in patient records and
patient reports. Research and Professional Development (incl. completion of
MMED).
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Maughan, tel no. (021) 406-6422 or deborah.maughan@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on
higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As
such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar
will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who
opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to
resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for
advertised Specialist positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student
be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
150
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/213 : REGISTRAR (GENETICS) (4-YEAR CONTRACT)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Each Registrar will be appointed in a
specific training complex but could be required to work across the platform on
request. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective leadership & interpersonal
skills. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree
of MBChB. Knowledge, expertise and experience with regards to providing
clinical services in assessment and treatment of patients, both adults and
children.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical Service and Counselling Provision to
patients and families with or affected by medical genetic disorders. Participate
in the teaching program. Research and Professional Development (incl.
completion of MMED). Effective Clinical Administration in patient records and
patient reports.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Fieggen, tel no. (021) 404-6235.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of
its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon
to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape
Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.”
151
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/213 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC MEDICINE)
(12 Month Contract) (2 Posts)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital,
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Applicants must have a valid APLS/ PALS
certificate. Must provide after-hours emergency services and participate in
commuted overtime at 16-hours per week. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work in a professional team. Post-internship experience in general
paediatrics under onsite supervision of a registered paediatrician. Ability to
achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their
families. Must assist with the provision of a comprehensive paediatric service.
Completion of /or exemption from South African Community Service Excellent
report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Experience with teamwork,
planning, organizing and coordination. Excellent interpersonal, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills Display empathy for
patients, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good time
management.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and
their families. Supervision of junior medical staff to ensure quality of care and
good clinical outcomes. Interaction with (and supervision of where necessary)
nursing staff, allied professionals, and students. Informal teaching and training
of junior staff in the course of clinical work. Teaching (formal and informal) of
undergraduate medical students. Effective and efficient administration of
clinical services. Clinical leadership in the workplace. Administration of the
HECTIS patient management system and other WCG health applications.
Improve professional competence by regular self-learning and reflection with
the application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Salie, tel.no. (021) 658-5430, Email:
Moegamad.salie@westerncape.gov.za.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
152
POST 37/214 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in
respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration
as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5
years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work commuted overtime (compulsory). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): To provide good quality, cost effective care to patients
accessing clinical services at False Bay Hospital, in the emergency department
and acute wards, 72-hour safe unit and outpatient services. To contribute to
clinical service improvement. Knowledge of Mental Health Care. To work with
the MDT to provide care to mental health care users. Knowledge and
management of general medical and surgical conditions at district hospital
level. Knowledge applicable to South African TB and HIV care guidelines,
mental health care, women and child health care and chronic diseases.
Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal,
organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to perform outreach
services within the Southern Western substructure and to provide support and
guidance to junior colleagues and nurses. Rotate in different departments
according to operational needs and requirements.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Comprehensive, evidence based, direct patient-
centered clinical service provision. Ensure compliance by means of
maintaining high quality clinical records. Effective administration, management
and service development. Conducting appropriate training, teaching and
operational research. Effective management and utilization of physical and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Adamson, tel. no. (021) 832-5265
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical/written test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/215 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
153
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48),
accredited with SANC. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with (SANC) as a Professional nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of
9 years of appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referring to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Curative skills in Primary Health
Care (R48). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Oversee Satellite Clinics and mobile health services. Willingness to
work overtime when necessary and willingness to support other clinics in the
Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Information management with
regards to PHC indicators. Quality assurance knowledge. COPC principles and
interpretation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic and Office of Health standards
compliance. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Good organizing skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective and holistic management of patients on
PHC level. Effective management and execution of integrated Child Health and
Youth Services including school health services. Effective management and
execution of integrated maternal & woman’s health services according to the
guidelines. Effective management and execution of integrated HAST services.
Provide holistic management and leadership in the PHC facilities and
coordinate mobile services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RA Christoffels, tel.no. (022) 482-2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates may be subjected
to a competency-based assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Swartland Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/216 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (NIGHTY DUTY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: A minimum of 8
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’
licence. Willingness to work night shifts, public holidays, after-hours, standby
and weekends. Willingness to travel for official meetings and/or training.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it
impacts on service delivery in a rural regional hospital environment.
Demonstrates a clear understanding of Infection Prevention Control,
Occupational Health and Safety and Risk Management – including Ideal
Hospital Framework and Quality Assurance Processes and Compliance.
Ensure that clinical nursing practice are rendered by the nursing team and
promote quality of nursing care as directed by scope of practice and standards.
Managerial and leadership skills and values: integrity, innovative visionary,
catalyst for change, self-awareness and confidence, delegation, accountability,
154
problem solving & decision making, conflict resolution, interpersonal and
communication skills. Very knowledgeable and demonstrates a good
understanding of People Management (Human Resource Management). -
Demonstrates a good understanding of financial policies and practices.
Knowledgeable about relevant legislation pertaining to labour relations, nursing
legislation, related legal and ethical nursing practices, relevant public sector
policies and protocols. Computer Literacy in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook. Willingness to act as Deputy Nursing Manager: Head of Nursing and
other members of the Nurse Management team when required.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Overall coordination, implementation and
monitoring of the strategic objectives of nursing, the facility and the Department
of Health. Effective management and coordination of quality nursing care within
set standards and within legal and professional frameworks. Manage and
facilitate both human resources and financial aspects related to the area being
managed. Management of information through the collection and analysis of
data, report writing and development and implementation of relevant
interventions. Policy development and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu, tel. no. (021) 503-5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/217 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: EC AND
THEATRE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma or
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or
General or in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability and
willingness to assist with shifts and after-hours hospital cover including
weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime should the need arise.
Valid Code (B/EB/C1) driver’s license. The incumbent will be expected to
assist/work at other clinics, mobile, satellite within the SD, when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and
policy related to this nursing specialty within the public sector. Be able to
function independently and as part of the multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of
the South African triage (SATS), Hospital and Emergency centre tracking
information systems (HECTIS). Ability to promote quality patient care through
the setting, implementation, and monitoring standards. Effective
communication, interpersonal, leadership, organisational skills, decision
making, and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage, supervise and coordinating patient care
and human resources in the Emergency centre and the Operating theatre
departments. Provide strategic leadership and guidance towards realisation of
strategic goals and objectives of the organization through the implementation
of policies, regulations, and professional practices. Collect, verify and submit
accurate statistics monthly with presentation thereof at the monthly Mortality
and morbidity meetings. Quality assurance management by auditing clinical
155
records, doing ward rounds, managing patient safety incidents and complaints.
Ensure in-service training and staff development of subordinates to enhance
staff skills and competencies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Vermeulen, tel. no. (028) 514-8419
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to competency assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Overberg District, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/218 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (CBS)
(COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH SERVICES)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
Diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme
Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to
maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
relations, leadership and communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge
of the Maternal-Child-Women’s-Health, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, Chronic Disease
Management and Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to work independently and
in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide comprehensive support for the Langeberg
Sub-district Primary Health Care management teams to enable implementation
and realisation of Western Cape and Cape Winelands District Health plans.
Support the implementation and integration of Community Orientated Primary
Care (COPC). Link, monitor, evaluate and coordinate COPC partners including
but not limited to, funded Non-Profit Organisations (NPOs) and Private
Provider Partners. Support Langeberg Sub-Districts to achieve programmatic
deliverables including Maternal and Child-Women-Health, First 1000 days
strategies, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, Mental Health, Chronic Disease Management,
and realisation of ideal clinic status. Monitor and evaluate programme goals
and targets including the collection, validation, interpretation and analysis of
statistical data. Support the integration of Palliative care program in the bigger
health system
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MP Williams, tel.no. (023) 626-8542
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Langeberg Sub District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/219 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL)
West Coast District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast TB Complex (Sonstraal Transitional Care Hospital), Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
156
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts, overtime, weekends
and public holidays on day and night duty depending on operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards
and knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policies related to nursing
within the public sector e.g. Labour relations, disciplinary codes etc. Good
organisational, interpersonal, leadership, decision-making, and conflict
resolution skills. Basic computer literacy –MS Word, MS Excel, Outlook (proof
must be attached). Knowledge of health applications i.e. Clinicom, Sinjani.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality nursing care throughout the hospital
through participation in the analysis, formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures Participate in training,
research and information management. Implement and oversee effective
processes and practices regarding quality assurance programmes, initiatives,
nursing guidelines, standards and procedures, adhere to National and
Provincial policies and Core Standards (Ideal Hospital Framework, OHS).
Efficient and effective Management and monitoring of financial, human and
physical resources. Provision of effective support and standby duty for Nursing
Management Ensure sound Labour Relations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Liebenberg, tel. no. (021) 815-8340
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within West Coast TB Complex, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/220 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Barrydale Clinic, Swellendam Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be an appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s license.
The incumbent will be expected to assist/work at other clinics, mobile, satellite
within the Sub-District, when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and
other relevant legal frameworks. Interpersonal skills including public relations,
negotiating, conflict handling and counseling skills. Knowledge of information
management.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the management of the Burden of
Disease according to the Comprehensive Health Programme. Quality of
service Plan and implement Health Promotion and Prevention activities
infacility and community. Link with the community structures and NPO’s.
Collect data and submit reports on or before time. Assist with the management
157
of human resources, Financial, SCM, Strategy and Health Support,
Infrastructure and Equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Van Der Westhuizen, tel. no. (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Overberg District, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/221 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: TRAUMA
& EMERGENCY)
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Post-
basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year accredited with
the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing:
General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing:
Trauma and Emergency. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends, overtime and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan, organise &
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving & decision making.
Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Trauma & Emergency Department.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning & implementation of nursing
care plans and the education of nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in
the Trauma & Emergency department. Render and supervise specialized
clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with surgical & medical
procedures. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and
development of self & others. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties, while practising within the legislation,
regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede tel. no. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application/on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
158
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within George Regional Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/222 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: TRAUMA
AND EMERGENCY) (6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Trauma and Emergency
Nursing or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing:
General. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day &
night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the Department of Health
Western Cape. Plan, Organize, & Coordinate the service by analysing, problem
solving, and decision making. Leadership towards the realization of strategic
goals and objective of the speciality clinical department. Display core values of
the Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the
public service.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans and the education of the nursing personnel as a
Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical area. Render and supervise
specialised clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with procedures
within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize human, material and physical
resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within the predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession
of stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Science: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: General
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/223 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
159
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. One-
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of
10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of
21-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of providing intervention for clients with mental
health challenges. Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant acts,
policies and procedures. Understanding of evidence-based practice and
knowledge of PSR model in a Mental health environment. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide evidence based Clinical Service within a
Mental health setting in accordance with prescribed requirements and
protocols. Conduct assessments and implement treatments plans within
allocated areas. Administration related to clinical service delivery. Ensure
effective resource management. Student supervision and training.
Management of events and projects advocating for mental health services.
Ensure continued professional development by staying abreast with
developments within the profession.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Louw, tel. no. (021) 940-4590
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/224 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dietician. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Dietician in respect of SA qualified
employees who performed Community Service, as required. Minimum of 11
160
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years
relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of
SA qualified employees who performed Community Service, as required in
South Africa. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees. Inherent
requirements of the job: Required to participate in weekend duties. Required
to accumulate CEU points for continued registration with HPCSA.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge and exposure to all
aspects relating to Dietetics in all aspects of dietetics. Good interpersonal,
communication and organisational skills. Computer literacy. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Relevant experience in student
training.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render a therapeutic service to in- and out-patients.
In-service training to personnel and dietetic students. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Esau, tel. no. (021) 938-5168
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Dietician with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/225 : EMS EMERGENCY CALL CENTRE SUPERVISOR (2 POSTS)
Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
Central Karoo Centre (1 post)
Cape Winelands Centre (1 post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Emergency Call Centre environment
(Minimum of 5 continuous years of experience with call taking and dispatching).
Appropriate previous supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Ability to work shifts and overtime, as needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Competency in the CAD (CareMonX) system. Good
leadership, communication, and interpersonal skills. Good planning, leading,
organizing and control abilities. Ability to work well under pressure. Computer
Literacy with MS Word, Excel and Power point, Outlook and Internet.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Efficient, effective, and quality management of the
Shift or Component in the CTCC. Cost Effective Management of allocated
overtime needs. Effective Human Resource Management, Training and
Development and the management of Labour Relations matters. Supervision
and Management of all Administrative Requirements. Effective Communication
and Liaison with internal and external clients. Support to colleagues and the
CT Centre Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BA Dees tel. no (021) 346-6032 – Cape Winelands; Ms M Arries tel. no.
(044) 805-5070 – Central Karoo
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Emergency Medical
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided in
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be expected
to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
161
POST 37/226 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate administrative
experience in line with the duties (key result areas/outputs) the post.
Appropriate administrative experience in a clinical or healthcare setting.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Working knowledge
and experience of Asset Management and Supply Chain Management in the
Public Service. Strong analytical and strategic thinking abilities. Computer skills
in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Good interpersonal
and organisational skills. Ability to work in a team context and motivate team
members. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial and National
Treasury regulations, Supply Chain Instructions as well as Accounting Officer
System. Attention to detail and adherence to deadlines. Strong organizational
and communication skills. Ability to manage multiple priorities and work
independently. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) and familiarity
with Syspro or LOGIS.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Asset Register Maintenance. Asset Verification.
Disposal Management & Loss Control Process. Additions of assets
Management. Contract Performance Management. Support to supervisor and
management. People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Groenewald, tel. no. (021) 938-4911
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/227 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (BID ADMINISTRATION AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate supervisory
and management experience in SCM. Appropriate experience in the
procurement of equipment and services in a SCM environment. Appropriate
experience in the Formal Bidding and Procurement process. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and practical experience in Logis and/or
Syspro, Electronic Procurement System (ePS), or other relevant procurement
systems used in the public sector. Computer literacy in MS Word, MS Excel,
Outlook. Good organisational skills. Excellent managerial and leadership skills.
knowledge and experience of the Bids and contract management process.
Knowledge of Asset and Inventory (warehouse) Management procedures.
Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial and Treasury
regulations. Knowledge of the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
5 of 2000 (PPPFA). Ability to apply the Disciplinary code.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Facilitate the end-to-end Bid Process for Red Cross
War Memorial Children’s Hospital from demand management through
specification, advertising, evaluation, adjudication, award, and contract
implementation, including performance monitoring and related administrative
duties. Manage procurement transactions effectively and efficiently on LOGIS,
IPS, and the Electronic Procurement System (ePS), including performing the
role of an Approver on ePS. or IPS. Maintain and monitor all awarded contracts,
including tracking of contract deliverables, performance reviews, expiry dates,
renewal timelines, and lease management. Ensure accurate, timely, and
compliant reporting of procurement and equipment purchases to Head Office,
management, and other relevant stakeholders. Coordinate the procurement of
all institutional assets, both major and minor, ensuring alignment with demand
162
plans and full budget utilisation. Liaise with internal end-users, service
providers, and external government departments on Supply Chain matters to
ensure responsive and compliant procurement. Ensure that procurement
processes adhere to the PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury regulations,
SCM prescripts, delegations, and the PPPFA. Identify procurement risks and
implement mitigation controls throughout the bid and contract lifecycle.
Maintain audit-ready documentation for all procurement and bid-related
transactions. Support internal and external audits. Monitor supplier
performance and address underperformance or breaches in line with contract
terms and disciplinary procedures. -Participate in Bid Specification, Evaluation
Committees as an SCM representative. Assist with the preparation of demand
plans and procurement plans aligned to the institutional strategic objectives.
Contribute to quarterly and annual reporting for SCM performance indicators.
Develop and provide training to staff on SCM processes, systems (LOGIS,
ePS), and applicable regulations to build internal capability and compliance
awareness. Oversee the performance management, training, development,
and disciplinary matters of staff under your supervision in line with HR policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Zibayi tel. no. (021) 658-5698/Mr S Ntsonkotha, tel. no. (021) 658-5298.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. CVs should
address experience and knowledge extensively with regards to duties above.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/228 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(EMPLOYEE SERVICES AND TALENT SOURCING)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection. Appropriate
experience in using biometric machine (hosting of fingerprints/ verification
checks). Appropriate working experience on the on-line advertisement system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy in MS Word, Excel and
Persal. Good communication skills. Knowledge of Employment Equity and
Recruitment and Selection Policy and Circulars. Knowledge of the Staff
Performance Management System (SPMS).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with and co-ordinate Recruitment and
Selection processes. Assist and advise with the compilation of job descriptions
and advertisements. Uploading of advertisements on the on-line system.
Provide an advisory and support service in the application of Recruitment and
Selection policy and procedures and EE matters. Scrutinise motivations for
procedural correctness and fairness. Supervision, training and development of
staff. Effective record-keeping and keeping of accurate statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms VG De Jager, tel. no. (021) 938-5194
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/229 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: RELIEF)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
163
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Will be required to work shifts, night duty, weekends, public holidays
as well as overtime. Willingness to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function
independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient
care. Ability to communicate effectively verbally and written. Knowledge of the
nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing Act and SANC
regulations. Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills,
leadership skills and flexibility. Skills to plan, organize & coordinate the service
by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning & implementation of nursing
care and the education of nursing & other personnel. Render advanced clinical
nursing care and support clinical staff with surgical & medical procedures.
Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development. Display
of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Campbell, tel. no. (044) 802-4371 / 4537
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/230 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
(SURGERY FEMALE WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
professional nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Willingness to rotate to other departments if required, excluding
Midwifery. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS
Office) Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team
to ensure good patient care, Excellent communication skills (both written and
verbal).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of the nursing plan (clinical practice or patient care). Implement
standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for quality nursing (quality of
practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and
regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain constructive working
relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and
physical resources efficiently and effectively.
164
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons, tel.no. (021) 860-2504, Email:
anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within (Paarl Hospital), for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/231 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
(INSTITUTIONAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : TC Newman CDC and PHC Clinics, Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post- Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness
to travel between PHC facilities in the Drakenstein Sub District and provide
relief as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to
work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent
interpersonal and communication skills. Appropriate knowledge of National and
Provincial Health Policies, Medicines Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of
1974 and Public Finance Management Act. Appropriate clinical and
pharmaceutical knowledge. Innovative analytical thinking and the ability to
initiate, co-ordinate, manage and sustain programs.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Pharmaceutical service delivery according to
legislation and scope of practice. Effective medicine supply management
(Receiving, storage, control and distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold
chain management in all areas where medications are kept. Provision of health
information and advice on correct usage and storage of medication Assistance
with waste management and rational usage of resources. Compliance with
policy and legislative requirements and Good Pharmacy Practice Guidelines.
Assistance with the Chronic Dispensing Unit (CDU) processes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Gaffoor, tel. no. (021) 877-6400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
165
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Drakenstein
Sub District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/232 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R248 271 per annum
Grade 2: R289 962 per annum
Grade 3: R339 438 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dietician. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dietician. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of
RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum of 11
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years
relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of
SA qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
conduct outreaches to local clinics, community day/ health centres and
communities. Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge and exposure to all aspects relating
to Dietetics. Good interpersonal, communication, counselling and
organisational skills. Computer literate in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook
and MS Teams. Facilitation, presentation and project coordination skills. Sound
knowledge of INP & nutrition policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Managing burden of disease by improving nutrition
in the early life and late life course to all patients. Provide community outreach,
conduct projects and activities by rendering a therapeutic service Capacitated
workforce. Provide in-service training and mentoring of all categories of
personnel and students on nutrition related topics to. General administration
including assisting with planning, reporting activities conducted, and monitoring
of nutritional programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Bedford-Titus, tel. no. (021) 360-4622) or email: (Ashlena.Bedford-
Titus@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration. The pool
of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
166
POST 37/233 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: DENTAL
(ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Asset
Management. Appropriate experience and knowledge in LOGIS. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to lift and move heavy equipment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Work, Excel and
Outlook). Sound knowledge of PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury
Instructions, and Legislation pertaining to asset management. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective maintenance of assets and systems and
of the asset register. Controlling movement of assets and disposal of assets.
Receiving and issuing of Gifts and Donations. Perform asset verification duties.
Physical lifting and moving of Assets. Assist with the compilation of the Annual
Financial Statements. Follow up all outstanding transactions. ICN and Item
Record Maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Gertse, tel. no. (021) 937-3190
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/234 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT:
ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (PROCUREMENT)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience and knowledge in Public
Sector Procurement and Supply Chain Management Processes and
Procedures. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy and have
knowledge of related procurement systems, SYSPRO, EPS, ESL. Knowledge
and understanding of relevant acquisition management legislation and
regulations. Knowledge of SCM framework, AO System, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, Practice Notes and delegations issued in terms of section 44 of
PFMA.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Sourcing of Quotations for Goods and Services via
the EPS i.e., Buyouts, mini contracts, staggered orders and procuring from
contracts to ensure adequate supply of stock. Preparation of Quotation
Batches for the Quotation Committee. Processing and expediting of Purchase
Orders. Communication/Follow-ups and Feedback with Suppliers and End-
users. Be an active member of the innovation team within SCM to improve on
processes and work methods.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JK Pypers, Tel no. (021) 404-2338
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test.
167
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/235 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Du Noon CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA's) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
inventory and stores management, or supply chain management, and assets
management administration. Appropriate experience working in a healthcare
or clinical setting. Familiarity with medical supplies and equipment. Knowledge
of inventory management software and systems (LOGIS). Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s License. Willingness to lift heavy boxes
and assets. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office:
Word, Excel and PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to function independently as well
as in a multi-disciplinary team. Communication, interpersonal skills,
organisational and time management skills. Knowledge and experience in
Healthcare Supply Chain Management and Finance principles and
administrative processes. Knowledge of the LOGIS systems, PFMA, Treasury
Directives and Legislations on SCM and Assets Management. Ability to adapt
to changing priorities and deadlines.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Issue and receive stock (physically and on LOGIS)
and ensuring the safekeeping of stock. Update stock and perform regular spot
checks of stock items, and regular stock takes. File all relevant documentation
and ensure audit compliance. Follow up on outstanding orders with suppliers
and Hub Hospital. Assist with all general tasks within the SCM and Finance
department. Perform the duties of procurement of goods/services and asset
management. Ensure that the FIFO principle is maintained in the stores.
Handle queries in all aspects within the SCM department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R. Hall, tel.no. (021) 200-4501 / Ms T. Petshwa tel.no. (021) 200-4532
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/236 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Vanguard CHC (1 post)
Protea Park CDC (1 post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Perform
relief duties as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
Good communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills. Knowledge
of Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18, PFMA, UPFS. Knowledge of
PHCIS. Ability to work under pressure, independently, unsupervised, in a team
and to accept accountability and responsibility, maintains confidentiality.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Accurate collection, safekeeping and deposit of
state money. Deal with written and or telephonic queries or enquiries with
regards to patient admission matters. Information management: daily collection
and collation of statistics in reception. Correct patient assessment and accurate
data recording. Perform relief duties and support to supervisor. Admission of
patients: obtain information from patient and capture on computer. Ensure
correct management of patient folders at reception areas and schedule
appointments (new, follow-up and operations) on system. Recordkeeping,
compile new, retrieve, file, trace lost and manage duplicates & old folders as
well as maintain a record system and archive.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Yako,tel. No. (021) 695-8242 (Vanguard CHC); Ms. J February, tel. no.
(021) 333- 5702 (Protea Park CDC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applicants
168
will be considered for other vacant Administrative Clerk: Admissions within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/237 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management and Warehouse environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Outlook). Good interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge of/skills in
SYSPRO.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Communication and liaison: Proper resolution of
queries and provide assistance where needed. Store Management: Ensure the
effective running of the store/warehouse. Stock counts: To verify stock holding
and identify slow moving stock. Vendor management: Communicate and
manage suppliers. Record management: Proper filing and updating of
electronic system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Block, tel no. (021) 404-2044.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/238 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
(Theatre And CSSD) (2 Posts),
(Paediatrics And Neonatal) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work night duty, weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
It will be expected of the incumbent to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms.
Knowledge of Nursing Practices and IPC, control measures and practices.
Ability to lift and turn patients, stand long hours and lift heavy equipment. Good
communication skills. Basic Computer Literacy. Self-discipline.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development
and implementation of basic patient care plans. Effective utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Actively participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo, tel. no. (021) 902-8010/57
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
169
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration with the
SANC (including individuals who must apply for change of registration status).
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/239 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
(Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
(Trauma And Emergency) (1 Post)
(Theatre And Day Ward) (1 Post)
(Neonatal ICU) (1 Post)
(Mixed Surgery) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required to work
shifts, night duty, weekends, public holidays as well as overtime. It will be
expected of the incumbent to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge nursing processes & procedures as outlined in
Nursing Act and SANC regulations. Training competencies include: Aseptic
technique, Wound dressing. Basic pharmacology and mathematical skills to do
calculation re dosages in medication. Basic principles of Health education.
Knowledge of the nursing Care Process. Knowledge of medical legal hazards.
Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills. Responsive, pro-
active, flexible, assertive and supportive. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede tel. no. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/240 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 per annum
Grade 2: R227 292 per annum
Grade 3: R270 009 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
170
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the South African Council for Social Services Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary Worker. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Profession (SACSSP) as a Social Auxiliary Worker. Experience: Grade 1: No
experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
in Social Auxiliary Worker after registration as a Social Auxiliary Worker with
the SACSSP or no experience after registration as Social Auxiliary worker with
SACSSP and successful completion of 2nd academic year of an appropriate
qualification that allows for registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. -Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience in Social Auxiliary Work after
registration as a Social Auxiliary Worker with the SACSSP or 10 years’
experience after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with SACSSP and
successful completion of 2nd academic year of an appropriate tertiary
qualification that allows for registration as Social Worker with SACSSP or No
experience after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with SACSSP and
successful completion of 3rd academic year of an appropriate tertiary
qualification that allows for registration as Social Worker with SACSSP.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the various aspects of social
work services in a hospital setting. Skills and knowledge of psychosocial
assessments, counselling skills and administration. Sound knowledge of
relevant community resources. Good interpersonal skills, written and spoken
communication skills. Proven computer literacy. Able to work and communicate
in a multidisciplinary team. Information and knowledge management – able to
keep precise records and compile accurate reports. Organizing and planning
skills. Client orientation and customer focused.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective individual, family and group counselling to
patients and family members. Able to understand human behaviour, ability to
form professional trusting relationships with clients which enables purposeful
problem solving and support. Liaise with the MDT, partnering with stakeholders
and linking patients with external service providers. Able to assist and support
social workers with rendering social work services across all inpatient and
outpatient service areas. Produce and maintain accurate records on the
medical file. Support to supervisor and colleagues. Perform all required
administrative tasks and statistics. Participate in all required Social Work
Department processes and administration as required. Attend relevant training
courses for professional development. Assist the social work team in the
organization, management and dispensing of any material assistance in
accordance with protocols. Assist in language interpretation, group work and
social work department / training logistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Brown, tel. no. (021) 658-5196
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable for health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Red Cross Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/241 : FOOD SERVICES AID
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in meal preparation/cooking of at least 250
meals at one time within a hospital or any industrial kitchen environment where
171
a wide variety of meals are being prepared. Inherent requirements of the job:
Cooking knowledge and skills. Willingness to work shifts during the day,
weekends and public holidays. The physical ability to lift heavy equipment and
supplies and stand on feet for most of the day. Dress according the
departmental/food service specifications. Work a 10-hour day shift and
weekends and public holidays (1 in 2). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of appropriate hygiene and safety procedures in an industrial food
service unit. The ability to handle industrial equipment. The ability to
communicate effectively. The ability to create tasty meals.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Pre-prepare and prepare meals for normal and
special diets. Dish up and distribute meals. Assist with the receipt and storage
of food supplies. Maintain general hygiene in the Food Service Unit. Follow
hygiene and safety directives for the use of apparatus and equipment. Report
broken apparatus and equipment. Maintain safety measures for apparatus and
equipment. Assist with the informal in-service training as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Coetzee, tel.no. (021) 658-5217.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to complete a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
POST 37/242 : FOOD SERVICES AID
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic Numeracy and Literacy Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work
day/night shifts (weekends and public holidays) Must be willing to enter all
types of hospital wards and serve the patients. Ability to do work of a physical
nature which includes lifting heavy objects and be on their feet the entire day.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of production for normal and
therapeutic diets in a foodservice unit. Knowledge of HACCP and safety
principles.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Utilise the Cook Chill System which involves pre-
preparation, cooking, plating, distributing, regenerating, serving meals and
beverages for the patients in accordance with the PGWC Food Service Policy.
Follow standardized PGWC Recipes and Menus. Assist in receipt and storage
of all provisions in the foodservice unit. Clean and maintain the kitchen area
and equipment and adhere to health and safety regulations. Communicate with
patients and kitchen staff and feedback problems and recommendations to the
Foodservice supervisor/manager. Dress according to Departmental
specifications and adhere to Hospital/PGWC Policy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K .Mapekula, tel.no. (021) 404-4002
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 24 October 2025
172