PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 18 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 30 MAY 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in
Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not responsible for the
content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge and experience (on
a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB:
PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the department where the
vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential candidates from the
excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative action measures)
and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should
state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment in the Public
Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course please visit the NSG
website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR: Please be informed that the nature of appointment for
the following advertised posts is permanent appointment and not a four (4) years contract as previously
stated: the posts of Registry Clerk- reference number: GAP-PRET-23521830-20250424-1 (X3 Posts) at
salary level (5) of R228 321 per annum, the posts of Messenger/Driver- reference number: GAP-PRET-
23521830-20250424-2 (X3 Posts) at salary level (4) R193 359 per annum and posts of Food Aide Services-
reference number: GAP-PRET-28298004-20250424-1 (X3 Posts) at salary level (2) R138 486 per annum.
These positions were advertised on the Circular 15 dated 09 May 2025 with a closing date of 23 May 2025.
The closing date is extended to 13 June 2025. Note applications must be submitted electronically online
following link https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps. Sorry for inconvenience
caused. Enquiries: Ms. Z Mdebuka Tel: (012) 309 4830 (General) and for ESSA system enquiries kindly
contact Mr. Vusi Mazibuko@labour.gov.za , Cell 082 886 9627
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM: Kindly note that the Enterprise Risk
Management Committee Chairperson Ref No: POST 16/142 as advertisement on circular 16 of 2025 dated
16 May 2025 has been withdrawn. We apologies for the inconvenience caused.
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that posts of Assistant Director:
Demand and acquisition with Ref No: Q9/2025/51, Administration Officer (Internal Audit) with Ref No:
Q9/2025/53, Administration Officer (CD: IIM) with Ref No: Q9/2025/54, Administration Officer (Executive
Support) with Ref No: Q9/2025/55, Administration Officer (Office of the CFO) with Ref No: Q9/2025/56 and
Senior Security Officer (12 months contract): with Ref No: Q9/2025/57, advertised on Public Service
Vacancy Circular 16 dated 16 May 2025 with a closing date of 30 May 2025, please note that the closing
date has been extended to 06 June 2025. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
DEPARTMENOF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the following posts were
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 17 dated 23 May 2025 (1) State Accountant: Budget Analysis
Ref No: 2025/51 (Head Office Pretoria), erroneously advertised with incorrect salary R397 116 per annum,
the correct salary is: R325 101 per annum. (2) Construction Project Manager (Production) (Grade A) Ref
No: 2025/45, erroneously advertised with the incorrect centre: Urban Regional Office, the correct centre is
as follows: Durban Regional Office.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES A 04 - 07
DEFENCE B 08 - 09
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM C 10 - 12
GOVERNMENT PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AGENCY D 13 - 14
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE E 15 - 16
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING F 17 - 19
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION G 20 - 22
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES H 23 - 24
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT I 25 - 28
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES J 29 - 34
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY K 35 - 53
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT L 54 - 56
SPORTS, ARTS AND CULTURE M 57 - 59
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS N 60
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE O 61 - 62
GAUTENG P 63 - 72
KWAZULU NATAL Q 73 - 78
LIMPOPO R 79 - 108
MPUMALANGA S 109 - 120
NORTHERN CAPE T 121 - 132
WESTERN CAPE U 133 - 157
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intent to promote equity through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to email:
recruit@dcdt.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp and should be accompanied by a recently
updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The successful candidates must disclose particulars
of all registrable financial interests and sign an employment contract within one month from the
date of assumption of duty. A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within
three months from the date of assumption of duty. Note: Applications received after the closing
date will not be considered. Only e-mailed applications will be considered. Short listed
applicants will be required to submit certified copies of all qualifications obtained and will be
subjected to verification by the South African Qualifications Authority. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered further. Due to the large volumes of
responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks, including social media checks, and the successful candidate will
have to undergo a full security vetting. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
of the closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please note that CVs
submitted will be destroyed after the three (3) months period. The Department complies with
the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will
use the personal information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your
application is unsuccessful, the Department will retain your personal information for internal
audit purposes as required by policies. All the information requested now or during the process
is required for recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Department will safeguard the security and confidentiality of all
information you shared during the recruitment process. The Department reserves the right not
to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Candidates whose
appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of employment equity within the
Department, will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AUDIO VISUAL MEDIA COPYRIGHTS AND SUSTAINABILITY REF
NO: DDAVMCS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and create an enabling environment, policy framework
and strategic reforms that ensure equitable access to digital services, promote inclusive digital
access, and enable equitable and Audio Visual Media Copyrights and sustainability.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a medical fund and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in relevant field. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in telecommunication sector
with at least three (3) years proven work experience at an Assistant Director level. Skills And
Competencies: At an advanced level in Job Knowledge, Quality of work, Initiatives, Planning
and executions Communication, Teamwork, Reliability, Management of Human Resources,
Policy Development and Implementation, Broadcasting Industry Expertise, Programme and
Project Management, Policy Development, Stakeholder Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage the development of the master plan, governance and
regulatory framework for the audio-visual industry that ensures industry sustainability and
promotion of media diversity and plurality in South Africa. Coordinate mechanisms to govern
audio-visual media intellectual property rights, i.e. registration, dealing with disputes,
commercial negotiations and enforcing licencing agreements and copyrights to ensure fair use,
limitations and exceptions. Promote sustainable practices and ensure economic sustainability
of the audio-visual industry, by fostering entrepreneurship, innovation, collaboration and
supporting the development of business models and revenue streams. Mobilise resources,
development of schemes and funding model policy for the audio-visual media industry.
Collaborate with key stakeholders to raise awareness about audio visual media copyright laws
and responsibilities and assist users and the public in understanding the rights and obligations
4
under copyright law. Provide oversight services to monitor the performance of the entities
(strategic, operational and financial performance) to ensure business impact, financial viability
and sustainability. Project Management, Manage financial resources, Driving change and
operational excellence and Manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260
POST 18/02 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOE POSTAL BANK REF NO: DDSPB
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and create an enabling environment, policy framework
and strategic reforms that ensure equitable access to digital services, promote inclusive Postal
Bank.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a medical fund and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Finance / Economics / Business Administration or relevant field. A minimum of five
(5) years’ experience in telecommunication sector with at least three (3) years proven work
experience at an Assistant Director level. Skills And Competencies: At an advanced level in Job
Knowledge, Quality of work, Initiatives, Planning and executions, Communication, Teamwork,
Reliability, Management of Human Resources, Policy Development and Implementation,
Operational Management, Financial Management, Data Analysis, Risk management,
Stakeholder Management, Innovation and Change Management, Regulatory and Compliance
Knowledge.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will maintain effective relationships with key stakeholders, including
government agencies, financial institutions, and industry partners. Manage postal financial
services adherence to all relevant regulatory and compliance requirements. Manage the
development of policies to regulate the Postal Financial Services/Postal Bank environment and
drive the relevant SEIAS processes to ensure legal aspects of the legislative framework and
stakeholder input are considered. Contribute to the provision of research on Postal Financial
Services/Postal Bank insights and trends to support technological innovation and digital
transformation in Postal Financial Services/Postal Bank environment. Monitor the performance
of the entities (strategic, operational and financial performance) to ensure business impact,
financial viability and sustainability. Manage and maintain partnerships and collaboration with
key partners to enable and accelerate the delivery of current and future postal services
requirements. Collaborate and engage with international community, sector role players,
businesses, and consumers to address complex challenges and opportunities of the Postal
Financial Services/Postal Bank. Project Management, Manage financial resources, Driving
change and operational excellence and Manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 12 427 8260
POST 18/03 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOE POSTAL REF NO: DDSOEP
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and create an enabling environment, policy framework
and strategic reforms that ensure equitable access to digital services, promote inclusive SOE
Postal.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a medical fund and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Engineering Technology / Public Policy or relevant field. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience in telecommunication sector with at least three (3) years proven work experience at
an Assistant Director level. Skills And Competencies: At an advanced level in Job Knowledge,
Quality of work, Initiatives, Planning and executions, Communication, Teamwork, Reliability,
Management of Human Resources, Policy Development and Implementation, Operational
Management, Financial Management, Data Analysis, Risk management, Stakeholder
Management, Innovation and Change Management, Regulatory and Compliance Knowledge.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage the implementation of strategic plans and policies for
postal services. Manage the development policies to create an enabling postal services
environment and drive the relevant SEIAS processes to ensure legal aspects of the legislative
framework and stakeholder input are considered. Contribute to the provision of research on
Postal Financial Services/Postal Bank insights and trends to support technological innovation
and digital transformation in Postal Financial Services/Postal Bank environment Collaborate
with stakeholders, including government agencies, private sector partners, and service
providers, to address challenges and promote innovation. Manage and maintain partnerships
and collaboration with key partners to enable and accelerate the delivery of current and future
postal services requirements. Project Management, Manage financial resources, Driving
change and operational excellence and Manage compliance.
5
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260
POST 18/04 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PAYMENTS AND ORDERS (LOGISTICS) REF NO: DDPO
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to implement Logistics policies and SOPs and manage the
warehouse, the processing of orders and payments in line with policies, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and related prescripts and legislative framework in the Department.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a medical fund and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Business / Commerce / Accounting / Finance / Supply Chain Management /
Logistics or relevant field. NQF level 7 qualification will an added advantage. A minimum of five
(5) years’ experience in Commercial environment with at least three (3) years proven work
experience at an Assistant Director level. Relevant accreditation such as CFA/AICPA/CIMA.
Skills And Competencies: At an advanced level in Job Knowledge, Quality of work, Initiatives,
Planning and executions, Communication, Teamwork, Reliability, Management of Human
Resources, BAS and LOGIS, Treasury Regulations, PFMA, Accounting Management, GRAP
and GAAP, Audit investigation, Risk Management, Budgeting management, International,
Financial Reporting Standard, Assets management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the development and implementation of
policies, delegations, systems, and processes for logistics, and voice and data management.
Manage the warehouse. Manage the logistics function in Supply Chain Management
(processing of orders and payments of goods and services). Manage the invoice receiving and
tracking system. Manage the maintenance of LOGIS. Review and monitor the implementation
of policies and procedures, SCM prescripts, PFMA and Treasury Regulations and other related
legislative framework. Project Management, Manage financial resources, Driving change and
operational excellence and Manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260
POST 18/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT SERVICE DESK REF NO: ASDITSD
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to facilitate the delivery of a single point of contact for IT support and
related services to formalise communication.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Information Technology / System Engineering / Computer Science or relevant field.
A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in information technology environment with at least
two (2) years proven work experience at supervisory level. Relevant accreditation such as
CRISC/CISA/ITIL/CITM/ CISSP/CGEIT. Skills And Competencies: Job Knowledge, Quality of
work, Flexibility, Planning and executions, Communication, Teamwork, Reliability, Management
of Human Resources, Client IT Technical Support, IT End User Support, IT software and
hardware installation, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis, Client
Orientation, Customer Focus.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will log IT service requests promptly. Assign IT service requests to
technicians and administrators promptly and make follow-ups. Escalate services requests
violating SLA metrics to the IT Service manager. Prepare IT Helpdesk reports. Log service
requests with hardware service providers where necessary. Diagnose and troubleshoot
technical issues reported by end-users. Respond to service desk tickets and inquiries promptly
and professionally. Assist with the setup, configuration, and maintenance of computer hardware
and software. Install and update software applications as needed. Escalate complex technical
issues to higher-level support teams or supervisors as needed. Assist in maintaining an
accurate inventory of IT equipment, including computers, peripherals, and mobile devices.
Update inventory records as needed. Assist with user account creation, modification, and
deactivation in accordance with security policies. Handle account access and permissions
based on established procedures. Collect feedback from end-users regarding the quality of
support services. Identify recurring issues and communicate them to higher-level support for
resolution Monitor network performance, traffic, and connectivity. Project Management, Manage
financial resources, Driving change and operational excellence and Manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260
6
POST 18/06 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOSS CONTROL AND BAS SYSTEM CONTROL REF NO:
ASDLCBSC
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to implement procedures and systems to prevent losses,
management of irregular expenditure, fruitless and wasteful expenditure as well as
unauthorized expenditure.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Business / Commerce / Accounting / Finance or relevant field. NQF level 7
qualification will an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in commercial
environment with at least two (2) years proven work experience at supervisory level. Skills And
Competencies: Job Knowledge, Quality of work, Flexibility, Planning and executions,
Communication, Teamwork, Reliability, Management of Human Resources, Treasury
Regulations, circulars and frameworks, PFMA, Accounting Management, Audit investigation,
Risk Management, Budgeting management, Assets management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will management of Irregular Expenditure, Fruitless and Wasteful
Expenditure. Management of damages and losses to departmental assets and hired vehicles.
Presenting of cases to the Loss Control Committee and execution of recommendations. Provide
monthly, quarterly and annual report in line with PFMA and for purposes of quarterly financial
statements, annual financial statements, Audit Committee, Risk and Ethics Committee and
Operational Plan. Maintain suspense account for control purposes. Serve as the BAS System
Controller for the Department. Project Management, Manage financial resources, Driving
change and operational excellence and Manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tania Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms Nokuthula Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed copies will not
be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service
Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received using incorrect
application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified, which must be originally signed and
dated by the applicant and which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full
particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview which should not be older than six
months. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in applications being
disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as
well as the documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. Should an application
be received where an applicant applies for more than one post on the same applications form,
the application will only be considered for the first post indicated on the application and not for
any of the other posts. Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of
application documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks and qualification
and employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance
processes. The level of appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience
and research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-entry
assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the candidate’s suitability.
Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing
date, please consider your application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses
anticipated, receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s) please contact
the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates will be appointed on probation
for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/07 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST (GRADE 1 – 3) REF NO: SG 01/18/25/01 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R827 709 per annum
Grade 2: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
(All-incisive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 1 Military Hospital
Thaba Tshwane
Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : M-degree in Clinical Psychology. Current full registration with the Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical Psychologist (Independent Practice). This is as Public Service Act
Personnel (PSAP) appointment. Must have an interest and in-depth experience in working at
the acute or semi-acute psychiatry ward as a Clinical Psychologist for a minimum of three (3)
years. Experience in working with medical professionals, commitment in working as a member
of a multidisciplinary team in a multicultural military environment. Must be willing to learn and
understand the military culture and organizational ethos. Special requirements (skill needed):
Computer literacy is essential. Competencies: Communication, Planning and Organizing,
Problem-solving, Analytical Thinking, Emotional Intelligence.
DUTIES : To provide supervision and training of intern Clinical Psychologist at 1 Military Hospital (1 Mil
Hosp). Liaise with other stakeholders to promote quality of care within the institution. Develop
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) and ensure sound execution. Identify requirements in
order to execute service delivery in the different service points at 1 Mil Hosp. Monitor service
standards and improve delivery. Implement corrective measures where necessary. Execute
functions as part of multidisciplinary team. Write reports and provide feedback where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel (Lt Col) P.M.W. Mphehlo Tel No: (012) 314 0402
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service. HR Services Department, 1
Military Hospital, Private Bag X1026, Thaba - Tshwane, Pretoria, or email to
dpsych.samhs@gmail.com
8
POST 18/08 : INDUSTRIAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST (GRADE 1 – 3) REF NO: SG
01/18/25/02
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
Grade 2: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
(All-incisive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : Military Psychological Institute, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : M-degree in Industrial and Organizational Psychology with a minimum of three (3) years’
experience. Current full registration with the Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Industrial and Organizational Psychologist (Independent Practice). Must be a Republic of
South Africa (RSA) citizen. Not have dual citizenship. Be ready to be appointed and serve as a
Public Service Act Personnel (PSAP). Must be willing to learn and understand the military
culture and organizational ethos. Must be willing to travel. Special requirements (skill needed):
Computer literacy is essential. Competencies: Communication, Planning and Organizing,
Problem-solving, Analytical Thinking, Emotional Intelligence.
DUTIES : Provide Industrial and Organizational Psychology (IOP) service at Military Psychological
Institute (MPI) as per the client requirements in line with the IOP scope of practice as prescribed
by the HPCSA. Act as specialist advisor to the client regarding assessments, selections and
developments. Conduct needs analysis to determine client needs and design programs for
intervention based on the needs. Develop Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) applicable
in your domain and ensure sound execution of projects allocated to you and your department.
Monitor service standards and uphold ethical and professional standards prescribed by HPCSA.
Execute projects independently and as part of a team. Implement corrective measures where
necessary to ensure high stands of service to the clients.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel (Lt Col) N.J. Sam Tel No: (012) 367 9056
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service Headquarters. (Directorate
Psychology), Private Bag X102, Centurion, 0046, or email to dpsych.samhs@gmail.com
POST 18/09 : MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST HEMATOLOGY, PRODUCTION LEVEL (GRADE 1 -3) REF NO:
SG 01/18/25/03
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
(All-incisive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 1 Military Hospital, Thaba Tshwane Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/B-Tech/BHSc in Medical Technology. No Medical Technology post
registration will be required but any relevant experience will be an advantage. Current full
registration with the Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Technologist
Haematology (Independent Practice). Special requirements (skill needed): Implementation and
management of Occupational Health & Safety regulations/Procedures. Total Quality
Management Communication. SANAS Accreditation.
DUTIES : Key performance areas applicable to the execution of these services/functions are: Good
knowledge and experience in the applicable functional fields of medical technology: Laboratory
methodology. Sample processing and sample administration. Maintenance principles and
procedures regarding laboratory analysers and general analytical equipment. Quality Control
processes and procedures. Laboratory Accreditation processes. Laboratory statistics.
Laboratory Data Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel (Lt Col) D.P. Maluka Tel No: (012) 314 0161
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service. HR Services Department, 1
Military Hospital, Private Bag X1026, Thaba-Tshwane, Pretoria, or email to
1milpathla@gmail.com
9
ANNEXURE C
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the
Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the EE Act, 1998 (Act 55 of
1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the department will be taken into consideration. People with disabilities
will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose appointment
will assist the department in achieving its EE targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will
be given preference regardless of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The DG of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria, 0001, hand deliver to Tshedimosetso House,
1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria, or to the email address provided.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 20 June 2025
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed application or
employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31 December 2020. As per the
Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant who submits an application on or after 1 January
2021 must do so on the new prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service
department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the
new prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Communication regarding
submission of certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from the department.
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be
considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG
particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the DG within three months from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a top-
secret security clearance. All appointments are subject to the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful candidates will
sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be reviewed based on performance
expiration. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms of
Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed by the department
and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes,
in accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/10 : DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/10
Chief Directorate: Human Capital and Corporate Support
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package) of which 30% may be
structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Property
Management, Facilities Management, Security Management. Successful completion of the
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme (Nyukela certificate) as endorsed
by the National School of Government (NSG) is a prerequisite for appointment. Five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior management level with extensive experience in managing the
provision of security and facilities management. Proactively manage risk and comply with audit
requirements. Proven leadership capabilities and sound interpersonal skills. Required Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Financial Management; Change Management; Risk Management; Programme and Project
Management. Process Competencies: Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
Knowledge of the Government Communication Policy; the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa of 1996; the Public Service Act of 1994 and Regulations; Public Administration
Management Act of 2014; the Public Finance Management Act of 1999; and other relevant
prescripts applicable in the communication sector, in the Public Service and for the entities
reporting to the GCIS. A valid driver’s license and computer literacy are essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the management and maintenance of GCIS
occupied properties through partnership with the Department of Public Works. Execute
accommodation strategic planning activities for the department. Management of leases and
payment of municipal services. Ensure buildings and equipment are maintained according to
10
required Occupational Health & Safety prescripts, and operational standards. Develop and
implement preventative maintenance schedules and procedures. Manage urgent repairs and
emergency maintenance services. Identify cost-saving initiatives without compromising service
quality. Approve and monitor expenses related to repairs, maintenance, utilities and
renovations. Obtain quotations and ensure value for money when engaging suppliers or
contractors. Ensure all facilities comply with environmental and building regulations. Conduct
regular inspections and audits to identify and address non-compliance. Maintain records of
inspections, maintenance activities, and regulatory compliance. Implement emergency
procedures and contingency plans. Plan and oversee minor construction work, refurbishments
and upgrades of property. Manage internal security personnel and the implementation of the
departmental security policy. Ensure projects are delivered on time, according to quality
standards. Liaise with internal stakeholders. Build and maintain strong relationships with
landlords, service providers, utility companies and contractors. Negotiate contracts and service-
level agreements (SLAs) with external suppliers. Monitor supplier performance against agreed
SLAs. Implement energy-saving initiatives across all sites. Monitor and report on utilities’
consumption and costs. Support the departments sustainability goals through facilities-related
initiatives. Management of maintenance of GG Vehicles. Monthly reconciliation between GCIS
payment and claims received from Govt Garage. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual
Organisational Performance Management System (OPMS) reports on the activities of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Linda Kaseke Tel No: (012) 473 0128
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard &
Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : It is a prerequisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-Entry Programme
certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information
regarding the course, visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate
must disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign the
employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty as well as sign a
performance agreement with the Minister within three months from the date of assumption of
duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance. Following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency
assessment. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
POST 18/11 : DIRECTOR: EDITORIAL AND LANGUAGE SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/11
Chief Directorate: Products and Platforms
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package) of which 30% may be
structured according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelors Degree (NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Journalism/Media
Studies/Communication/Public Relations or related field majoring in
Journalism/Media/Communication/Public Relations. Successful completion of the Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme (Nyukela certificate) as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG) is a prerequisite for appointment. Must have a minimum
of five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior management level, with extensive experience in
writing, editing and proofreading communication and strategic documents. Ability to develop
content in support of various communication campaigns and events such as the State of the
Nation Address (SoNA) and other Key Government Programmes. Computer literacy is a
requisite, Proven leadership capabilities, and sound interpersonal and intercultural skills. The
following core competencies are essential: Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment; Financial Management; Change Management; Risk Management; Problem
Solving and Analysis; Programme and Project Management. Knowledge of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa of 1996; Government Communication Policy; Public Service Act of
1994 and Regulations; Use of Official Languages Act of 2012; Public Administration
Management Act of 2014; Public Finance Management Act of 1999 and other relevant
prescripts applicable in the communication sector, in the Public Service and for the entities
reporting to the GCIS. A valid driver’s licence; Ability to work under pressure and meet tight
deadlines; Willingness to work overtime, including weekends and public holidays, when
required. Knowledge of at least three South African languages of which two must be African
languages.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the planning of publications, their deadlines,
content scope, style and look-and-feel. Oversee and handle the rewriting, editing and
proofreading of content for strategic documents such as the Annual Report, Strategic Plan and
Annual Performance Plan, as well as communication products such as articles, leaflets, posters,
newsletters and magazines. Develop content in support of government campaigns and events
such as the SoNA. Provide editorial support and advice to management. Deal with writers,
editors, contributors and printers. Supervise the production and publication of the annual South
Africa Yearbook (SAYB) and its abridged version, the Official Guide to South Africa. Provide
leadership and advice on the relevant content and look-and-feel of the two publications.
Supervise the translation and quality control of communication products such as publications,
11
media statements, newsletters, leaflets, advertisements, exhibitions, etc. in all official
languages, including the provision of a South African Sign Language interpreting service for the
organisation. Supervise the harvesting of terminology, and the updating and implementation of
the GCIS Language Policy and Editorial Style Guide. Develop and implement control systems.
Monitor expenditure trends and submit monthly projections. Manage the performance of staff,
and contribute to their training and development. Coordinate staff and management meetings.
Compile monthly and quarterly reports of the directorate. Proactively manage risk and comply
with audit requirements. Participate in relevant structures to plan for the Auditor-General South
Africa (AGSA) and internal audit requirements. Provide source documents, responses and
progress reports required in the performance audits by the AGSA and Internal Audit. Implement
corrective measures as required by AGSA and Internal Audit. Identify and review operational
and fraud risks. Develop and implement mitigation plans. Report on progress on the
implementation of risk mitigation plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Zanele Mngadi Tel No: (012)473 0141
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard &
Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : It is a prerequisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-Entry Programme
certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information
regarding the course, visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate
must disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign the
employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty as well as sign a
performance agreement within three months from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a
Top-Secret security clearance. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency assessment.
Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
OTHER POST
POST 18/12 : AUDIOVISUAL LIBRARIAN REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/12
Directorate: Media Production
Twelve (12) Months Contract
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus 37 % in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : GCIS Head office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession Grade 12 and an appropriate three-year National Diploma
(NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Information Science /Multimedia Studies
or equivalent related qualification, as recognised by SAQA. The candidate must have at least
one (1) year relevant experience in the duplication and archiving of audiovisual products (Radio,
Video, Graphic Design, Digital and Online platforms), footage and programmes into various
formats. The incumbent must be innovative, digital literate and abreast with latest digital
communication trends, methods and applications. A self-motivated and enthusiastic person able
to work with limited levels of supervision. Strong verbal and effective writing and communication
skills. Have knowledge and the understanding of the PFMA of 1999 and Supply Chain
Management processes. Must be computer literate. Must have coordination and project
management skills. Be client orientated. Must be able to work under pressure, in a fluctuating
environment with good time management skills. Should be highly motivated and driven with an
eye for detail. Furthermore, the applicant should be in possession of a valid Code 08 driver’s
licence as the work involves extensive travelling. Basic knowledge of administration and
finances is required.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for logging, archiving, updating and maintaining
the audiovisual library database. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports of audiovisual
material. Supply audiovisual material to clients in the requested format. Provide camera work
and teleprompter services when needed. Supply footage for GOZATV. Please detail courses
passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Neli Shuping Tel No: (012) 473 0042
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard &
Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource Management and
Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine their suitability based on the technical
and generic requirements of the post.
12
ANNEXURE D
GOVERNMENT PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AGENCY (GPAA)
APPLICATIONS : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83 completed and duly
signed) to Recruit4@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference number in the subject heading of the
email.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 before 12h00 noon. No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Take note of the disclaimer mentioned on each advert. It is mandatory that applications which
consist of a signed Z83 and comprehensive CV be emailed to the respective email addresses
indicated on each advert. Ensure that you use the correct inbox/email. Applications send to the
incorrect inbox will be deemed a regret. Ensure to sign your Z83 before you scan it. Please use
your signature or valid e-signature and not your name written in block/typed print. A Z83 not
signed will be deemed a regret. From 1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83)
form will be effective and if the old Z83 is used, it will be deemed a regret. Should an individual
wish to apply for a post after 1 January 2021, he/she will be required to submit the new
application for employment form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or
http://www.gpaa.gov.za Requirements: Applications must be submitted on the new form Z83 as
indicate above (signed and scanned). The relevant reference number must be quoted on all
documentation and on the subject heading of the email. An application should consist of (a) a
comprehensive and detailed CV (specifying all experience and duties, indicating the respective
dates MM/YY as well as indicating references with full contact details) and (b) a duly completed
Z83 (refer to Circular No 19 of 2022 in this regard) only. Failure to submit the above documents
will result in the application not considered and deemed a regret. The candidate must agree to
the following: Shortlisted candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel
interview at a date and time determined by the GPAA. Note that certain information contained
in the application (CV and Z83) may be verified through the request for official documents and
or other methods of verification and proof (when shortlisted). The certification of all supporting
documents will be expected of the shortlisted candidates only. Applicants must note that pre-
employment checks and references will be conducted once they are short-listed and the
appointment is also subject to a positive outcome on these checks, which include but not limited
to: security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, previous employment verification and criminal record. Applicants
will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by Minimum Information Security
Standards. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Correspondence will only be conducted with the
shortlisted candidates. If you have not been contacted within six (6) months after the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The candidate
must take note of: It is the GPAA’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will
promote representativeness in line with the numerical targets as contained in GPAA’s
Employment Equity Plan. For applications on salary levels 11 – 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. SMS will be required to undergo
a Competency Assessment as prescribed by DPSA. All candidates shortlisted for SMS positions
will be required to undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. One of the minimum requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate. For
more details on the pre-entry course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/ The GPAA reserves the right to utilize practical exercises/tests/competency
assessments for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s).
The GPAA reserves the right to cancel the filling/not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during
any stage of the recruitment process. The successful candidate will have to sign and annual
performance agreement and will be required to undergo a security clearance.
OTHER POST
POST 18/13 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT: OFFICE OF THE CEO REF NO: ADMS/CEO/2025/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three- year National Diploma | Degree or equivalent three-year qualification (with minimum
360 credits) in Public Service Administration | Office management or relevant coupled with a
minimum of three (3) years demonstrated/practical experience within an Office Management
environment. Computer literacy that would include a good working knowledge of Microsoft
Office products. Knowledge of prescribed Regulations and Policies, PFMA, National Treasury
Regulations, Knowledge of Public Service Regulations and other Government prescripts,
Analytical skills, Problem solving skills, Communication skills (written and verbal), Planning and
13
organizing skills, Report writing skills, Assertive, Proactive, Quality driven, Team player, Ability
to work independently.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which includes but are not limited
to the following: Manage and maintain an efficient administrative system for the coordination of
work within the CEO’s Office. Ensure an effective and efficient registry system is in place.
Overall management of the document management system within the Office of the CEO.
Implement and maintain records management system as per approved file plan. Assist with the
development and implementation of a disposal programme in the Office of the CEO. Monitor
overall document flow – prioritize and determine turnaround time in consultation with DD: Office
Manager. Monitor operation and effectiveness of filing system. Manage follow-up reports, draft
responses to some of the correspondences addressed to CEO as directed. Assist with the
organization and planning of governance structured meetings, assist with the facilitation and
coordination of all regulated governance structures’ meetings, provide secretariat support to
meetings, assist with the preparation, packaging, circulation of agendas, and minutes of
meetings. Assist with the development of a decision follow up report of all regulated governance
structures including CEO’s oversight meetings. Conduct proper Document Management
practices. Transcribe and type written and dictated communication. Review, annotate, register,
classify, prioritize and distribute incoming correspondence, reply to correspondence of routine
nature. Prepare and review submissions. Record and route outgoing correspondence. File all
relevant documents for record purposes. Liaise with Regional and National Heads on functional
matters, assist with the facilitation of quicker communication of information, such as reports and
submissions, from and to regional offices in line with the information routing protocol. Provide
logistical support services for meetings, workshops and seminars relating to internal control.
Assist with any administrative duties to ensure effective operation of risks to the Committee and
the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Nthabiseng Mosimanyana Tel No: (012) 319 1324 or Sanele Ngema Tel No: (012) 399 3501
NOTE : The purpose of the role is to render an administrative support service to the Office of the CEO.
One permanent position for Administrative Support to the Office of the CEO is currently available
at the Government Pensions Administration Agency.
14
ANNEXURE E
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Please register or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this position on the GTAC
eRecruitment website https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per PSR 2016.
Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and signed Z83 form (obtainable from
any Public Service department). The post title and reference number must be clearly indicated
on the Z83 form. A recent comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates will be subjected
to personnel suitability checks and security vetting in order to confirm employment. Short-listed
candidates must make themselves available for a panel interview on the date determined by
GTAC. Late applications, and those not meeting the requirements, will not be considered.
Should you not receive feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please
consider your application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
posts Applications: Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by
a comprehensive CV and fully completed and signed Z83 form will not be considered. The
GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people
with disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and reasonable
accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities. The GTAC is an equal opportunity
employer and encourages applications from women and people with disabilities in particular.
Our buildings are accessible for people with disabilities.
OTHER POST
POST 18/14 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSETS MANAGEMENT (GTAC) REF NO: G04/2025
Term: Permanent
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management or Supply Chain Management and/ or another
degree in the related field. Experience must be 5-8 years in Financial Management or Supply
Chain Management, with at least 3 years’ experience, of which at Assistant Director or
equivalent supervisory level in Financial Management or Supply Chain Management.
Experience in public service financial management would be advantageous. Extensive
knowledge of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Competencies required: Client Service
Orientation: implies helping or serving others, to meet their needs. It means focusing on
discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet them, as well as putting into practice the
Batho Pele spirit. The term “clients” refers to both internal and external clients. Effective
Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and communicate effectively
to others by considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may involve
listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and electronic
messages. Computer Literacy: Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology
efficiently. Refers to the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and other
applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Emotional Intelligence:
Capacity for recognising their own feelings and those of others, for motivating themselves and
others as a result of this awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and in
others. Information Sharing: Both the motivation to expand and use one's knowledge and the
willingness to share this knowledge with others. Team Participation: Works co-operatively with
others, working together as opposed to working separately or competitively. Valuing Diversity:
The Ability to understand and respect the practices, customs, values and norms of other
individuals, groups and cultures. Administrative Operations: Knowledge, capabilities and
practices associated with the support of administrative and management activities to facilitate
organisational and mission goals and objectives. This competency requires knowledge of the
appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated systems within various enabling
functions which may include human resources management, resource management, employee
support services, documentation, procurement and financial management. Financial
Management: Knowledge of budget management processes and administration, goods and
services procurement, and asset management and auditing including the development and
management of internal control systems. General Management: Knowledge of process of
planning, directing, organising and controlling people and resources within a unit or a subunit in
order to achieve organisational goals
DUTIES : GTAC goods and services procurement support: Manage goods and services purchase orders
processing including: preparing and issuing purchase orders (on receipt), updating Purchase
Order Register and filing documents (on receipt), checking outstanding orders to finalise
payments (monthly), preparing a monthly report. GTAC financial administration: Manage official
claims and sundry invoices processing. Manage S&T and Entertainment claims processing.
Manage GTAC telephone accounts processing. Manage NT service payments including:
15
Consultants Parking report for NT (quarterly), preparing VAS2 for NT Courier Services and
overseas transactions payments (as required), updating Consultant Parking and VAS 2
registers. GTAC asset management: Manage and support GTAC assets including: developing
and implement the GTAC Asset Management policy, procedures and templates, monitoring and
reporting non-compliance issues, attending the ICT Committee meetings (monthly), preparing
for and performing bi-annual asset verifications (April and October). Manage the GTAC Lease
Register (update and review). GTAC financial operations support: Coordinate the development,
implementation and maintenance of the Financial Operating Manual and Coordinate the
Financial Management File Plan, including all financial policies, procedures and workflow
processes. Ensure that all governance documents & delegations are in place.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072 or kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
16
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
APPLICATIONS : The adverts can be accessed on DHET Website at www.dhet.gov.za or
https://www.dhet.gov.za/sitepages/careers.aspx and Will Be Placed on the DPSA Circular a
Skilled and Capable Workforce for An Inclusive Growth” The Full Details for T Please register
or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this position on the GTAC recruitment
website https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 20 June 2025
NOTE : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the Departmental
Website (click ‘apply now’ button) or http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply and following the easy
prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and
(2) copies of all qualifications (including matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s licence,
and any other document (where required). A fully completed and signed (electronic signature)
Z83 form will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos will assist in how to complete the
form and digital signature. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies on or before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race, gender, and
disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of
which will be communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required to
undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry requirements for the SMS
position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment will take place without the successful
completion of the pre-entry certificate and submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry
course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her
financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal
record check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment
verification). Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action employment. It is
our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the
organisation. Women and people living with disability will receive preference in all NSF posts”.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/15 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BURSARIES MONITORING REF NO: NSF03/05/2025
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Bursaries
This post is being re-advertised and candidates who had previously applied may re-apply
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration,
Human Resources Management or related qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ work
experience in Project Management and managing resources with at least three (3) to five (5)
years’ proven work experience at an Assistant Director level. Knowledge of Public service and
NSF mandates and strategies. Knowledge of the education system and pedagogy, post school
education framework, government wide legislation. Legislative knowledge and prescripts e.g.
Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, General knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Further skills and competency
requirement relate to strategic capability and leadership and communication management and
people management and empowerment, problem solving and analysis, technical proficiency,
project management. Good computer skills and a valid driver’s licence is a requirement.
Candidate must be willing to travel, work irregular hours and be committed to meet
communication requirements within tight time frames.
DUTIES : Managing and monitoring bursaries within NSF. Managing the co-ordination of site visits by
Assistant Director within directorate. Assigning bursar recipients to Assistant Director: Bursaries
Monitoring and Managing the collection of information by Assistant Director: Bursary monitoring
for monitoring and reporting purposes. Managing the implementation of the monitoring and
evaluation log frame within NSF. Managing the monitoring of bursary agency sites and student
performance against the monitoring and evaluation log frame. Defining directorate performance
indicators. Updating the monitoring and evaluation framework with monthly indicators.
Managing bursary monitoring reporting within NSF. Reviewing monthly reports from monitoring
officers to monitor and report on the status and progress of bursaries funded by NSF and
adherence to agreements by bursary agencies. Developing lessons learned based on
information collected from Assistant Director within the directorate. Ensuring that all documents
17
related to bursary monitoring are submitted for knowledge management purposes and in
accordance with knowledge management policy and process. Managing stakeholders within
NSF. Engaging and maintaining relationship with institutions and bursary agency sites.
Engaging with internal stakeholders within NSF on the progress and impact of bursaries funded
by the NSF. Managing resources of the directorate. Monitoring expenditure for the directorate
against the allocated budget within NSF. Managing the performance of employees in line with
PMDS Policy. Providing employees with the necessary information and resources to deliver on
their objectives and meet the targets of the directorates. Supporting the implementation of all
management decision. Managing employees related matters within the directorate. Adhere at
all times to the values of NSF. Prepare monthly reports and make presentations as required.
Participating as an active member of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els 012 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943
3161
POST 18/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BURSARIES INITIATION AND EVALUATION REF NO:
NSF04/05/2025
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Bursaries
This post is being re-advertised and candidates who had previously applied may re-apply
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration,
Human Resources Management or related qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ work
experience in Project Management and managing resources with at least three (3) to five (5)
years’ proven work experience at an Assistant Director level. Knowledge of Public service and
NSF mandates and strategies. Knowledge of the education system and pedagogy, post school
education framework, government wide legislation. Legislative knowledge and prescripts e.g.
Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, General knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Further skills and competency
requirement relate to strategic capability and leadership and communication management and
people management and empowerment, problem solving and analysis, technical proficiency,
project management. A valid driver’s license. Candidate must be willing to travel, work irregular
hours and be committed to meet communication requirements within tight time frames.
DUTIES : Managing the bursaries initiation process within NSF. Developing the marketing and sourcing
strategy for the Outreach Programme within NSF. Developing a monitoring and evaluation log
frame for bursaries funded by the NSF. overseeing the handover of bursary recipient names as
a Deputy Director. Developing stakeholders’ agreements with bursary agencies and community
partners within NSF. Managing the bursaries evaluation process. Managing activities related to
the evaluation of bursary agencies and students through the outreach programme. Managing
the performance of bursary agencies and the output of the outreach programme. Managing
bursary agency’s performance reporting and outputs of the outreach programme. Review the
results of impact assessments conducted on bursary recipients. Facilitating lessons learned
consolidation for bursary agencies and the outreach programme. Engaging with stakeholders
within NSF. Initiating and maintaining community partnerships. Maintaining relationships with
bursary agencies and strategic partners within NSF. Managing resources of the directorate.
Monitoring expenditure for the directorate against the allocated budget within NSF. Managing
the performance of employees in line with PMDS Policy. Providing employees with the
necessary information and resources to deliver on their objectives and meet the targets of the
directorates. Always adhere to the values of NSF. Managing employees related matters within
the directorate. Participating as an active member of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els 012 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943
3161
POST 18/17 : ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT REF NO: NSF05/05/2025
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Human Resources Management and Development
This post is being re-advertised and candidates who had previously applied may re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 per annum per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National diploma (NQF Level 6) in office management or Human Resources
Management/Public Administration/ Management and or related qualification. A minimum of
one (1) to 2 (two) years of relevant experience in office management and administration within
a Human Resource Management and Development environment. Knowledge and
understanding of applicable HR legislation and procedures. Good planning and organising
skills, interpersonal and decision-making skills. Good written and verbal communication skills.
Good computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
18
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Schedule appointments and maintain
an electronic diary. Ensure that legislative and/ or other important dates are documented in the
diary and that constant reminders are sent out to ensure compliance with due dates. Coordinate
business travel and accommodation as required. Plan, prepare, timeously relevant
documentation for meetings and arrange venues and refreshments as required and record
proceedings of meetings. Record messages in detail and convey them promptly to the Human
Resources Directorate. Prioritise work received from the Human Resources Directorate. Type
correspondence, reports, minutes, presentations spreadsheets and related material from
proceedings or handwritten notes. This involves working on Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. Plan,
prepare for and proceed with meetings. Prepare documents and distribute information/
documents as requested by the Human Resources Directorate in hard copy or electronically
e.g., prepare distribution packs for meetings. Source information as requested by the Human
Resources Directorate. Receive and register incoming mail and documents and distribute them
within the Human Resources Directorate as required. Stock control of office stationery. Perform
administrative tasks related to expense claims. Make photocopies, scan, documents, and file
documents electronically in a logical order. Maintain an appropriate filling system (manual and
computerised) for the Directorate. Ensure all files are always readily accessible and retrievable.
Maintain a pending system to diarise documents for future action. Register the movement and
file all documents that are entering or leaving the offices of the Directorate. Track and follow up
on documents that are entering or leaving the offices of the Directorate. Track and follow up on
documents that were sent from the Directorate that require action or approval. Perform other
administrative support functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els 012 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943
3161
19
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your applications to the e-mail address indicated below each post and quote the
post name in the subject line of the e-mail address to receive an acknowledgement; Hand-
delivered applications can be submitted to the OR Tambo Building, 460 Soutpansberg Road,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 20 June 2025. Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new form Z83 (effective from 1 January 2021) (duly
completed and hand signed) obtainable from any Public Service department or on the DIRCO
website - www.dirco.gov.za. For other relevant information and how to apply, kindly visit the
Department’s website (www.dirco.gov.za) – home page under Jobs. Applications should be
accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of qualifications, Identity
Document (ID), Drivers licence as well as any other relevant documents will be submitted by
shortlisted candidates only Received applications using the incorrect Z83 for employment will
not be considered. All appointments will be subjected to a process of security clearance. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks and verification of qualifications; In line with Cabinet decision taken on 2 March
2016, all applicants are required to indicate in their Curriculum Vitae the number of Boards
he/she is serving on. Where this information is not provided, such application will not be
considered; The successful candidate will have to complete a Financial Disclosure form
annually; We thank all applicants for their interest; DIRCO reserves the right not to make
appointments; Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within four (4) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/18 : PROJECT MANAGER: ARF
African Renaissance Fund (ARF)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12). This all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of at least an NQF level 6/7 relevant qualification in Project
Management / Business Administration or Finance. A qualification in International Relations will
be an added advantage. Experience with implementing international projects will be an added
advantage At least 3-5 years’ experience in a project environment of which three years should
be at junior management level Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework governing the Public Service with specific emphasis on monitoring and evaluation
Knowledge of project management Knowledge and upstanding of Service delivery policy and
guidelines Basic understanding of financial management principles Understanding of National
Development Plan Understanding of developmental funding mechanisms Policy analysis and
development Report writing Facilitation Diplomacy Networking Negotiation Problem solving and
analytical skills Client Orientation and service delivery innovation Change management and
adaptability Knowledge management Financial management skills People Management and
Empowerment Communication skills (written, verbal and computer literacy) Strategic Capability
and Leadership Strategic planning processes.
DUTIES : Compile project proposals for consideration by the ARF Advisory Committee Feasibility study
on identified projects Project Planning and implementation from inception until conclusion,
resource allocation, participate in the bid committees for the ARF Ensure timely delivery of
projects within budget and scope Receive and evaluate project proposals prior to tabling before
the Advisory Committee Identify and ensure the resolution of projects risks and quality of project
deliverables Manage the relationship with key stakeholders Provide project performance reports
to stakeholders Development of standard operating procedures and relevant frameworks to
govern project management implementation for the entity Audit projects to ensure and measure
adherence to standards Perform ad hoc responsibilities that might be required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Sekalo Tel No: (012) 301 8689 / Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to pmarf25@dirco.gov.za
POST 18/19 : ASSISTANT PROJECT MANAGER: ARF
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of at least an NQF level 6/7 qualification in Project
Management/Business Administration or Finance. Experience with implementing international
projects will be an added advantage At least 3-5 years’ experience in a project environment of
20
which three years should be at supervisory level Competencies: Knowledge and understanding
of legislative framework governing the Public Service with specific emphasis on monitoring and
evaluation Knowledge of project management Knowledge and upstanding of Service delivery
policy and guidelines Basic understanding of financial management principles Understanding
of National Development Plan Understanding of developmental funding mechanisms Policy
analysis and development Report writing Facilitation Diplomacy Networking Negotiation
Problem solving and analytical skills Client Orientation and service delivery innovation Change
management and adaptability Knowledge management Financial management skills People
Management and Empowerment Communication skills (written, verbal and computer literacy)
Strategic Capability and Leadership Strategic planning processes.
DUTIES : Assist in facilitating project management and planning processes Manage project resources
and oversee the execution of projects from the initiation through to project closure Project
implementation, tracking spending in line with approved budget, regular reporting on project
status Assist in receiving and evaluating project proposals prior to tabling before the Advisory
Committee Identify and ensure the resolution of projects risks and quality of project deliverables
Provide project performance reports to stakeholders Establish project steering committees for
all projects Audit projects to ensure and measure adherence to standards Assist with the
development of standard operating procedures and relevant frameworks to govern project
management implementation for the entity.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Sekalo Tel No: (012) 301 8689 / Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to apmarf25@dirco.gov.za
POST 18/20 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: MONITORING & EVALUATION: ARF
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of at least an NQF level 6/7 qualification in Monitoring and
Evaluation/Strategic Management /Auditing or related qualification Auditing experience will be
an added advantage At least 3-5 years’ experience in monitoring and evaluation
/auditing/strategic management of which three years should be at supervisory level
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing the Public
Service with specific emphasis on monitoring and evaluation Knowledge of Treasury and DPME
Regulations / Monitoring & Evaluation systems and processes / Standards and criteria for the
Management Performance Assessment Tools Knowledge and upstanding of Service delivery
policy and guidelines Knowledge and understanding of MPAT, FOSAD and PSC outcome /
FOSAD and PSC M&E processes Understanding of the PFMA and other legislations applicable
to schedule 3 entities Understanding of National Development Plan Understanding of
developmental funding mechanisms Policy analysis and development Report writing Facilitation
Diplomacy Networking Negotiation Problem solving and analytical skills Client Orientation and
service delivery innovation Change management and adaptability Knowledge management
Financial management skills People Management and Empowerment Communication skills
(written, verbal and computer literacy) Strategic Capability and Leadership Strategic planning
processes.
DUTIES : Facilitation of ARF annual audit process Monitor and evaluation of projects annual impact
assessment reports on all projects Preparation of quarterly and annual reports Contribute to
monitor and evaluate financial arrangements as per Programme / Project Agreements /
Contracts Assist with the development of strategic plans and annual performance plans Monitor
the implementation projects against the project proposals/ARF Act and applicable legislations
Conduct financial and compliance monitoring Monitor in collaboration with Legal Services the
implementation of MOUs Monitor the implementation of risk management policy and plans by
means of risk management systems and processes Assist with the development of frameworks
and policies Administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Sekalo Tel No: (012) 301 8689 / Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to ammearf25@dirco.gov.za
POST 18/21 : ASSISTANT FINANCE MANAGER (ASSISTANT DIRECTOR LEVEL)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of at least NQF level 6/7 qualification in Financial
Management/Accounting / Cost Accounting Experience in project management finance for
projects At least 3 - 5 years’ experience in a finance environment of which three years should
be at supervisory level Experience in preparation of Annual Financial Statements in line with
generally recognized financial reporting principles Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of Legislative Framework governing the Public Service; Financial Management;
Government policies, Budget process and practices as well as legislation / regulations such as
PFMA; Treasury Regulations & Frameworks and Division of Revenue Act; ARF Act; Generally
Recognized Accounting Practice (GRAP); GAAP; Supply Chain Procedures; Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act. Knowledge of government systems. Knowledge and
understanding of foreign currency. Problem solving Analytical thinking Networking
Communication skills Computer literacy Planning and Organizing Project Management.
21
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the Internal Control services to ensure effective and efficient utilization of
resources. Expenditure management, compilations of terms of reference to be submitted to
SCM, monthly reconciliations on project funding Preparation of annual budgets and monitor the
spending thereof Preparation of quarterly financial statements in line with the GRAP standards
Manage the Financial Reporting of the Public Entity Manage the process of Financial
Management by sure compliance with all financial prescripts e.g., PFMA, Treasury regulations,
Supply Chain Procedures, etc. Assist with the development of financial policies, procedures,
and processes Manage and administer disbursement of funds as per the approved projects and
recommendations Conduct cost-benefit analysis to ensure value for money and propose
interventions. Provide periodic financial reports to the advisory Committee Advice the
secretariat and the board on investment opportunities and report thereon.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Sekalo Tel No: (012) 301 8689 / Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to afmarf25@dirco.gov.za
22
ANNEXURE H
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources
policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits.
Therefore preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the JICS in achieving its Employment
Equity targets in terms of the JICS’s Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : Private Bag X153, Centurion, 0046. Alternatively, applications may be handed in at Block C 3,
Eco Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046 HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za -
SUBJECT – Post reference number
CLOSING DATE : 20 June 2025
NOTE : The application must include only the completed and signed new Z83 Form (which has been in
effect since 1 January 2021), obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA
website link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive and detailed
Curriculum Vitae, with specific starting and ending dates in all relevant positions and clarity on
the levels and ranks of experience as compared to the Public Service, as well as at least three
contactable references. Certified copies of the Identity Document, Senior Certificate, Driver’s
License where necessary and all qualifications mentioned in the CV, as well as a SAQA
verification report for foreign qualifications, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to
Human Resources on or before the day of the interview date. It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to
positive results of the security clearance process and the verification of educational qualification
certificates and other suitability checks. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted when requested. Due to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of section 11 (1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (POPIA), to your personal
information which you provide to JICS being processed by JICS and its employees, agents,
cabinet committees, and sub-contractors for recruitment purposes, under the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of 12
months. JICS reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the advertised posts. The
successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement. Please Note: Before
you apply: All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The
appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of 1994. The Judicial Inspectorate
for Correctional Services is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and
equity employment, preference will be giving to Whites, Indians and people living with
disabilities.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 17 dated
23 May 2025 for Independent Correctional Centre Visitor for Richmond Correctional Centre
under Reference JI 22/2025 should have been at Hopetown Correctional Centre. The post of
ICCV at Hopetown Correctional Centre is therefore advertised under reference JI 22/2025. The
post of ICCV at Richmond Correctional Centre will be filled under Reference JI 24/2025. The
closing date will remain 13 June 2025.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/22 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: JI 114/2024
Office of the Chief Executive Officer
3 Year Contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF6) or higher qualification in Internal Audit/ Accounting/
Finance. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) years at Junior Management/ASD level
and three (3) years functional experience in Internal Auditing. CIA will be added advantage.
Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge: Internal Audit Methodology; Batho Pele Principles; Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations; Public Service Regulations;
Public Service Act; National Treasury Internal Audit Frameworks; Public Sector Risk
Management Framework; King Report on Corporate Governance Framework for Managing
Performance information; International Internal Audit Standards; International Financial
Reporting Standards; International Accounting Standards Generally Recognized Accounting
Practice (GRAP); Departmental Internal Audit Activity, Audit and Risk Committee Charter;
Departmental legislative and regulatory framework (LRA, BCEA, PAIA etc). Skills:
23
Communication (Verbal and Written); Conflict Management; Project Management; Leadership;
Coordinating; Risk Assessment; Negotiation; Presentation; Problem Solving; Planning and
Organizing; Policy analysis and Development; Computer Literacy; Report writing.
DUTIES : Develop the Internal Audit three year rolling plan for JICS. Implement the three (3 year) and
annual Internal Audit Plans. Coordinate work with key stakeholders and monitor the
implementation of the Internal Audit methodologies. Manage the resources of the Sub-
Directorate’s. Design and review methods, frameworks and procedures to conduct Audit to
improve controls and systems by developing and implementing the Performance Audit
Methodology and ensuring and monitor mitigation actions for identified risks of the Internal Audit
Activities. Ensure that a risk assessment is conducted regularly to identify emerging risks for
the institution. Developing risk management strategy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
POST 18/23 : ASSISTANT REGIONAL MANAGER: KZN MANAGEMENT REGION REF NO: JI 115/2025
Directorate: Management Regions
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Matric or an equivalent Certificate, and appropriate 3-year Degree/National Diploma
in Public Administration/Public Management or relevant qualifications (NQF 6/RVQ 13). Five (5)
years relevant work experience in the criminal justice sector with at least four (4) years’
experience on supervisory level. Knowledge of relevant legislation and prescripts as well as
how this post contributes to the implementation of the National Development Plan. Knowledge
of intergovernmental relations. A Valid driver’s license is essential. Computer literacy. Analytical
and problem-solving skills. Conflict, Time and Diversity management skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the day-to-day running of the Region,
which includes the managing of its staff and all administrative procedures of the unit. Exercise
control over the ICCV post establishment and VC demarcation. Handling of inmates’ complaints.
Management of policies and other working documents. Promote community involvement in
correctional matters, liaise with relevant stakeholders and build sustainable relations with
community organizations. Monitor the implementation of JICS policies by unit staff and contract
workers. Plan and coordinate trips by unit staff to ensure the best financial practice and account
for assets reflected in the unit’s register. Perform any duty delegated by the Regional Manager
and or Director: Management Regions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sibanyoni Tel No: (031) 366 1900
POST 18/24 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF
NO: JI 116/2025
Office of the Chief Executive Officer
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized NQF 6 qualification in Public Management or Public Administration or relevant
equivalent qualification (NQF 6/RVQ13). The candidate must have three (3) to five (5) years’
experience in strategic management/planning. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of: Public
Service Act, (Batho Pele Principles), corporate governance guidelines and strategies. Required
information technology knowledge. Monitoring and evaluation framework. Application of
research methodology. Basic project management. Strategic formulation and implementation.
Public sector governance framework. Monitoring and evaluation (setting outcome targets and
performance measures). Communication (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis.
Planning and organising. Knowledge management. Diversity management. Budgeting and
financial management. Computer literacy. Research skills. Development of monitoring
contingency plans and systems.
DUTIES : Coordinate and prepare inputs/presentations and feedback regarding the strategic and annual
performance plans for JICS. Assist with the review or development of relevant departmental
policies pertaining to JICS procedures to the relevant role players. Develop, facilitate,
coordinate, present and maintain strategic and annual planning processes. Coordinate and
maintain operational plans. Ensure the updating and monitoring of strategic planning in terms
of the annual performance/business plan and operational plan. Ensure the proper and timeous
reporting on the performance plan. Coordinate the development and submission of the annual
performance. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of JICS performance outcomes and
reviews.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
24
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae.
Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification
as well as a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates
to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do not comply with the above
specifications will not be considered and will be disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an
applicant to ensure that application reaches the department noting different options provided
for submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical and competency assessment. A pre-
entry certificate obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also
be required to undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide
the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives
as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where driver’s license is
a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear
from us within 3 months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: Kindly note the position advertised as Tate Accountant: Taxation with Ref No:
25/58/FMS, in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 17 dated 23 May 2025, with a closing date
of 09 June 2025, has been amended to reflect the correct title. The correct post name is State
Accountant: Taxation. We apologies for the inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGET PLANNING REF NO: 25/57/FMS
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all - inclusive remuneration package). The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Management Accounting, Financial Management, Financial
Accounting, Public Finance as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a
finance environment at managerial (Assistant Director) level; Knowledge and understanding of
Public Finance Management Act, budget management, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Treasury Regulations and Public Audit Act. Skills and Competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership; Programme and project management; Financial management;
Change management; Knowledge management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem
solving and analysis; People management and empowerment; Client orientation and customer
focus; Communication; Computer literacy; Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and facilitate the budget planning process of the
Department; Coordinate the standardization of Budget Planning processes; Coordinate and
facilitate the roll-over, Adjustment Estimates of National Expenditure (AENE) and virement
process; Coordinate the Maintenance of Budgets Information in the Department’s Financial and
Procurement Systems; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Roos Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria
POST 18/26 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: 25/26/FMS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all - inclusive remuneration package). The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Financial Management, Financial Accounting,
Supply Chain Management, B Com in finance as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’
experience at managerial (Assistant Director) level in the internal control environment;
Knowledge of Financial Provisioning and /or Administration procedures, processes and policy
25
development; Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and other legislative prescripts. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic
thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness;
Developing others; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Decision making; Project
management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Produce management reporting in respect of unauthorized, irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure; Conduct pre and post-review of financial transactions to
detect non-compliance; Conduct a determination of the confirmed irregular expenditure; Verify
recommendations from Legal Services/Law enforcement and monitor the implementation
thereof; Prepare disclosure notes in respect of unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure for inclusion in the financial statements; Manage human, finance and other
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 18/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITORIAL SERVICES: ISINDEBELE REF
NO: 25/62/SLA
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Communication or Linguistics as recognized by
SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a translation services work environment; Language
requirement: Major in IsiNdebele; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Basic
Condition of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act and Government initiatives and decisions;
Understanding of Code of Conduct; Knowledge of Departmental interpretation and application
of policies and Administration of office. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking;
Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and information
management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity
management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems;
Computer literacy; Planning and organising; Project management; Team leadership.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee the translation function; Edit translated bills; Manage
terminology development; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 18/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITORIAL SERVICES AFRIKAANS REF
NO: 25/63/SLA
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Communication or Linguistics as recognized by
SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a translation services work environment; Language
requirement: Major in Afrikaans; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Basic
Condition of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act and Government initiatives and decisions;
Understanding of Code of Conduct; Knowledge of Departmental interpretation and application
of policies and Administration of office. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking;
Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and information
management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity
management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems;
Computer literacy; Planning and organising; Project management; Team leadership.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee the translation function; Edit translated bills; Manage
terminology development; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
26
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 18/29 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 25/06/FS
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Offices, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting (NQF level 5) or any other relevant tertiary
qualification at NQF level 5; Five (5) years court interpreting experience with minimum two (2)
years supervisory experiences; Proficiency in two or more indigenous languages and English;
Language requirements: Sesotho, IsiXhosa, English and Afrikaans A valid driver’s license. Skills
and Competencies: Communication skills; Listening skills, Interpersonal skills, Time
management; computer literacy, Analytical thinking, Problem solving, Planning and organising,
Confidentiality, Ability to work under pressure and art of interpreting.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render interpreting services; Translate legal documents and exhibits;
Develop terminology; Assist with the reconstruction of court records; Attend to personnel
administrative aspects; Procure Foreign Language Interpreters and Casual Interpreters in line
with the PFMA. Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili Tel NO: (051) 407 1800/073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your application to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag X20578,
Bloemfontein, 9300. No 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein.
POST 18/30 : COURT INTERMEDIARIES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Colesburg Magistrate Office Ref No: 82/24/NC/COL
Galeshewe Magistrate Office Ref No: 83/24/NC/GAL
REQUIREMENTS : Three year Bachelor Degree / National Diploma / Academic Qualification in one of the following
fields: Teaching, Social work/ Family Counselling, Child Care and Youth Development,
Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Clinical counselling, educational psychologist; Applicants must be duly
registered with the relevant professional / scientific organization / body in their field of
specialization; A valid driver’s license; Minimum of three (3) years working experience in the
applicable field; Experience in working with different types of disabilities, exposure to court
procedure, court etiquette, legal terms and terminology and functions of courts will be an added
advantage; Knowledge of relevant legal and regulatory framework (Constitution of RSA, 1996;
Criminal Procedure Act, 1997 (Act No 51 of 1977), particularly sections 153, 158 and 170A;
Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of
2007); Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005); Domestic Violence Act (Act No 116 of
1998).Skills and Competencies: Communication Skills and empathic, Listening skills (with
children, persons with mental disabilities and other traumatized witnesses), Trauma and basic
counselling skills, Interpersonal Relations; Customer focus and responsiveness, Administrative
skills, Computer literacy (MS Word, Powerpoint, Outlook, Excel), Problem solving and decision
making skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide Intermediary services to vulnerable witnesses when the
application; for such services is granted by court; Arrange for specialized language interpreting
services to be offered to witnesses who will testify via an intermediary, Maintain the effective
operations within the testifying room; Maintain the good condition of the waiting room/ area for
the victims, Render administrative support service in court.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Swartz Tel No: (053) 802 1300 (Ext 17)
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The
Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300.
OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets,
7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
POST 18/31 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: PAYROLL REF NO: 25/59/FMS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience; Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA,) Budget Management, Public Service Regulations, Public Service
Act, Treasury Regulations; Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Audit Act, Knowledge of Policy Development and Payroll
administration. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and
Outlook); Communication (written and verbal) skills; Budgeting and financial management;
Ability to maintain a high level of confidentiality; Interpersonal relations; Customer service
orientation; Problem solving skills; Research and analytical skills; Presentation and facilitation
skills.
27
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render financial accounting transactions; Supervise and
perform bookkeeping support services; Supervise and perform salary administration support
services; Render a budget support services; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Van RossTel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal Address: The Human
Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical Address: Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001.
POST 18/32 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 25/60/CA (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal
and written); Planning and organizing skills; Computer literacy; Concern for others; Creative
thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem analysis; Self-management; Team
membership; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration support within the component;
Provide financial administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M D Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria
POST 18/33 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 25/61/CA
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4/Grade 10; Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written);
Planning and organizing skills; Customer service; Attention to detail; Interpersonal skills; Ability
to work under pressure; Conflict management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide catering support services; Serve food and beverages during
meetings; Clean kitchen utensils and equipment; Check cutlery, prepare and clean conference
facility; Monitor supply of food and report waste and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M D Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria,
0001.OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
28
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
APPLICATIONS : NB: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods of submitting a job application,
namely: Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of
the methods provided above. You may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed
to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59,
Arcadia, 0007. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus,
corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. Another option is to submit
application through email as a SINGLE scanned document/ One PDF attachment to the email
addresses specified for each position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms
T Gumede 012 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity;
affirmative action employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector
through the filling of this post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women
interested in senior management positions. An indication of such, in this regard will be vital in
the processing of applications. Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application
form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended,
which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must
be completed (In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure
to provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete information will result
in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide
an evaluation certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an
invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the advertised posts are
minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency
of the applications received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be required to give consent in terms of
the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security
screening and vetting, qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as application
received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant wishes to withdraw an
application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also important to note that the Department
reserves the right not to fill any advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/34 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH REF NO: 015
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Health Science or relevant to Occupational Health (NQF 7) Plus registration with the
HPCSA with a minimum 5-year senior management experience in the field. Knowledge of:
Project management, planning, project finance and economics, industry and public- sector
policies, strategies and legislation in the field of Mine Health and Safety, people management
and data management and analysis report writing and presentation. Knowledge of planning
Tools. Skills: Communication skills. Project management skills. Report writing and presentation
skills. Decision making. Interpersonal skills. Negotiation. Computer skills. Time management
and work planning. Analytical skills. Thinking Demand: Rigorous non-corruption thinking relating
in the development and implementation of plans and strategy. Dynamic, open and assertive in
monitoring and overseeing data collection and analysis. Recommendations/Note: No
appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate producing a Certificate of
completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) offered by the National School of
government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a compulsory
competency assessment and technical assessment. The Candidate will have to disclose her/
his financial Interests. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a pdf format.
DUTIES : Oversee/ provide specialist advice/ information in respect of occupational hygiene and medicine
related matters as well as the status of occupational hygiene and medicine in the mining
29
industry. Oversee the rendering of medical advice as mandated by the Act. Lead research and
benchmarking of the status of occupational hygiene and occupational medicine in the mining
industry with international counterparts/ countries to identify training and policy needs. Oversee
quality assurance of the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate processes and outputs (e.g.
inspections, audits, investigations and enquiries). Ensure/ Assist with the technical aspects of
standards, legislation and specifications. Manage the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Mziza at 071 475 8343
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment01@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to women and persons with disabilities.
POST 18/35 DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING REF NO: 016
SALARY R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Public Management/ Business Management/ Business Administration/ Public
Administration/ Monitoring and Evaluation/ Social Science (NQF 7) Plus minimum of 5 years’
experience at middle/senior in strategy and planning environment Knowledge of: understanding
of government mandates and priorities. Knowledge and understanding of DMPR policies,
functions, projects etc. Policy development. Strategic planning. Project management. ,Financial
Management, Government policies. Project/ programs in DMPR. National Economic and
Development Strategy. Skills: Diplomatic. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Management and organisational skills. Computer skills. Creativity and innovation. Interpersonal
skills. Analytical skills. Numerical. Organising and Coordination. Facilitation and
implementation. Well-developed interpersonal relationships at all levels. Financial
management. Negotiation and consultation skills. Problem solving and analysis. Thinking
Demand: Logical. Creative/ innovative thinker. Accurate. Objective. Recommendations/Note:
No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate producing a Certificate
of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) offered by the National School of
government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a compulsory
competency assessment and technical assessment. The Candidate will have to disclose her/
his financial Interests. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Develop standards operating procedures for strategic management and planning for approval
of SP, APP, AOP in line with approved government planning guidelines. Facilitate the
development and approval of strategic plans, annual performance plan and annual operational
plans. Facilitate the development of a service delivery improvement plan. Ensure alignment of
Departmental strategic objectives to the SOEs priority arears (output and outcomes). Provide
guidance and support in strategic implementation within the Department. Manage the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mulaudzi at 079 501 9968
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment02@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White male are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/36 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: 017
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Information Technology/ Computer Science/ Business Information (NQF 7) Plus
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management in Information Technology
environment. Post graduate Degree in Business management will be an added advantage
Knowledge of: Management and expertise in all areas of information technology especially IT
Infrastructure. Technical expertise in advance strategic IT Infrastructure. Change management
with knowledge of Public Service and Departmental organizational matters. Policy development.
Strategic planning. Financial management. Project management and government policies.
Skills: Excellent managerial communication and interpersonal relationship skills. Strong
leadership and organisational skills. Negotiation and consultation skills. Problem solving and
analysis. Strategic capability. Management and expertise in all arear of information technology
specific to infrastructure. Technical expertise in advance strategic ICT Infrastructure.
Regulatory framework for the management of IT in government. Programme management with
service delivery orientation and effective budget management. Thinking Demand: Logical.
Creative/ innovative thinker. Accurate. Objective, Ability to analyse and interpret information.
Recommendations/Note: No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) offered by
the National School of government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a compulsory
competency assessment and technical assessment. The Candidate will have to disclose her/
his financial Interests. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Oversee the management of information technology service delivery and promote continuous
improvement of productivity, quality service and customer satisfaction. Manage and direct
30
processes on utilisation of system security mechanism and ensuring compliance to the IT
regulatory framework. Ensure the management or architecture and network configuration within
the Department. Manage the development, maintenance and implementation of policies and
strategies pertaining to information technology services and systems. Manage the development
of information technology infrastructure architecture and conduct investigations into the
maintenance of existing technologies as well as the availability, needs and demand of new
technologies. Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Leso at 071 475 8416
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment03@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/37 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEM APPLICATIONS REF NO: 018
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Information Technology/ Computer Science/ Business Information (NQF 6)
PLUS minimum of 3 years’ experience in software development (i.e. Document management
solutions, BI & Data warehouse solutions, system, integration etc.) and experience in junior
management. Knowledge of understanding of relational database management systems.
Understanding of SDLC Phases and its outputs. Understanding of BI or data warehouse
environment. Budget management. Policy development. Strategic planning. Financial
management. Project management. Government policies. Knowledge of ESRI GIS and Magic
Software development will be an added advantage. Enterprise Architecture (i.e. Togaf). System
development frameworks. Understanding or experience of modelling language and frameworks.
Risk analysis. Skills: well-versed with most widely utilized programming languages i.e., C#,
ASP. Net, Magic 9.4, XPA etc. Excellent managerial, communication and interpersonal
relationship skills. Strong leadership and Organisational skills. Negotiation and consultation
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Creativity and innovation. Technical expertise in advance
strategic and business analysis. Change management with knowledge of Public Service and
Departmental organizational matters. Regulatory framework for the management of IT in
government. Programme management with service delivery orientation and effective budget
management. Client focused. Negotiation and analysis. Change management. Thinking
Demand: Logical. Creative/ innovative thinker. Objective. Accurate. Ability to analyse and
interpret information. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and
integrity assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Oversee the activities of the Sub-directorate. Ensure/ Develop, maintain and implement policies
and strategies pertaining to business systems and processes as well as information systems.
Promote the utilisation of technology as key enablers for service delivery and transformation.
Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Malefo Tel No: (012) 444 3086
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment04@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female or male are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/38 : SENIOR ANALYST: FINANCIAL FUNDING AND ANALYSIS REF NO: 019
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Accounting/ Financial Management / Public Management / Public
Administration and Internal Auditing (NQF 7) and drivers’ licence, PLUS a minimum of 3 years’
experience at a Junior managerial level in SOE environment. Knowledge of: Basic project
finance and economics. Industry and public sector policies, strategies and legislation in the field
of mining, People management and data management analysis, Knowledge of the mineral
industry, Skills: Communication skills. Project management skills, report writing and
presentation skills, decision making, interpersonal skills, Negotiation, computer skills, time
management and work planning, analytical skills, Thinking demands: rigorous non-corrupting
thinking relating in the development and implementation of strategy and legislation, dynamic,
open and assertive in monitoring and overseeing collection and analysis.
Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as attachment on
a PDF format.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise processes to collect and tabulate data to informing processes to monitor
,evaluate and report on the performance accounting practices and financial performance of
SOCs in the (DMPR) group, Manage the provision of analytical support services to specialist to
analyse the budget performance of SOCs in the Group, Ensure the effective, efficient and
economical utilisation of resources allocated to accounting analysis and modelling projects,
Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Bosoga Tel No: (012) 444 3611
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment05@dmre.gov.za
31
NOTE : Indian, Coloured, White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/39 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 020
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : North-West Region, Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene/ Environmental Health/ Environmental Management
(NQF 6) Plus Certificate in Mine Environmental Control, with a minimum of 3 years’ experience
in Occupational Hygiene and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge of: Knowledge of Mine Health
and Safety Act, Regulations and Legal. Hazard identification and risk management. Public
Service Staff Code. DMPR Policies. Skills: Ability to interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety
Act. DMPR Policies and staff codes. Management skills, Planning, Leading, Organisational and
Controlling skills. Report writing and formulation. Good interpersonal relations. Be able to
recommend mining occupational hygiene solutions. Negotiation skills. Language proficiency
and Computer skills, Thinking Demand: innovative thinker. Analyse situations carefully, make
fair and reasonable decision. Receptive to suggestion and ideas. Be able to stay calm and
collective during difficult situations, dynamic personality. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will
undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments. Candidates who are applying online are
requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection on matter relating
to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors and other matter relating to mine occupational
hygiene and take the necessary enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report
on mine related accident, contraventions, and complaints as well as the analyses of mine
accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action.
Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate, consult, and provide input on mine
closure, prospecting rights, mining rights and permit, EMP’s and township development. Provide
inputs to regional reports, revision of mining regulations, guideline and standard and application
of exemptions, permissions and approvals related to occupational hygiene.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Melembe Tel No: (018) 487 4300
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment06@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/40 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 021
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Region, Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene/ Environmental Health/ Environmental Management
(NQF6) PLUS Certificate in Mine Environmental Control, with a minimum of 3 years’ experience
in Occupational Hygiene and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge of: Knowledge of Mine Health
and Safety Act, Regulations and Legal. Hazard identification and risk management. Public
Service Staff Code. DMPR Policies. Skills: Ability to interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety
Act. DMPR Policies and staff codes. Management skills, Planning, Leading, Organisational and
Controlling skills. Report writing and formulation. Good interpersonal relations. Be able to
recommend mining occupational hygiene solutions. Negotiation skills. Language proficiency
and Computer skills, Thinking Demand: innovative thinker. Analyse situations carefully, make
fair and reasonable decision. Receptive to suggestion and ideas. Be able to stay calm and
collective during difficult situations, dynamic personality. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will
undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments. Candidates who are applying online are
requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection on matter relating
to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors and other matter relating to mine occupational
hygiene and take the necessary enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report
on mine related accident, contraventions, and complaints as well as the analyses of mine
accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action.
Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate, consult, and provide input on mine
closure, prospecting rights, mining rights and permit, EMP’s and township development. Provide
inputs to regional reports, revision of mining regulations, guideline and standard and application
of exemptions, permissions and approvals related to occupational hygiene.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Phakoago at 083 283 3157
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment07@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/41 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 022
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gauteng Region, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene/ Environmental Health/ Environmental Management
(NQF6) Plus Certificate in Mine Environmental Control, with a minimum of 3 years’ experience
in Occupational Hygiene and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge of: Knowledge of Mine Health
and Safety Act, Regulations and Legal. Hazard identification and risk management. Public
Service Staff Code. DMPR Policies. Skills: Ability to interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety
32
Act. DMPR Policies and staff codes. Management skills, Planning, Leading, Organisational and
Controlling skills. Report writing and formulation. Good interpersonal relations. Be able to
recommend mining occupational hygiene solutions. Negotiation skills. Language proficiency
and Computer skills, Thinking Demand: innovative thinker. Analyse situations carefully, make
fair and reasonable decision. Receptive to suggestion and ideas. Be able to stay calm and
collective during difficult situations, dynamic personality. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will
undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments. Candidates who are applying online are
requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection on matter relating
to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors and other matter relating to mine occupational
hygiene and take the necessary enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report
on mine related accident, contraventions, and complaints as well as the analyses of mine
accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action.
Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate, consult, and provide input on mine
closure, prospecting rights, mining rights and permit, EMP’s and township development.
Provide inputs to regional reports, revision of mining regulations, guideline and standard and
application of exemptions, permissions and approvals related to occupational hygiene.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Madubane Tel No: (011) 358 9700
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment08@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/42 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE REF NO: 023
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Northern Cape Regional Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Nursing, Midwifery, Community Health, Occupational Health and Primary
Health Care, (NQF 6) with a minimum of 3 years of experience in occupational medicine and
valid driver’s license Knowledge of: Sound knowledge of both Occupational medical and
nursing discipline. Understanding of MHSA and regulations and directives. Understanding
general mining practices and occupational health risk associated with. knowledge of
Petrochemical industry diving and equipment, Skills: Ability to apply knowledge. Researching
skills. Good communicator. Have good investigating skills. Must be computer literate. Thinking
Demands: Health and safety hazards/risks recognise and respond. Be able to apply MHSA.
Dedicated, hardworking, loyal and conscientious. Well experienced in occupational Health on
Mines and industry. Knowledge of offshore oil exploration and diving industry. Sound
temperament. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, and surface audits and inspections on matters relating to
medical surveillance, and other matters relating to mine Occupational Medicine and take the
necessary enforcement action where necessary. Ensure the investigation of and reporting of
mine relating diseases, contraventions and complaints as well as analyse regional mine disease
trends to determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action. Investigate, consult
and provide input on mine closures, prospecting rights, mining rights and permits, EMP’s, and
township development. Provide inputs to regional reports, revision of medical regulations,
guidelines and standard; and applications of exemptions, permissions and approvals related to
occupational medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mateta at 082 459 2778
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment09@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/43 : INSPECTOR: MINE EQUIPMENT REF NO: 024 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Region, Witbank
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Electrical or Mechanical Engineering (NQF 6) PLUS Certificate of
Competency for Mechanical or Electrical Engineering (Mines) with minimum of 3 years’
experience in mine equipment and a valid driver’s licence, Knowledge of: Mine Health and
Safety Act and Regulations and Legal Proceedings. Mining Engineering- Mine Equipment e.g.
Winder, Boilers, Plants. Hazard and risk management. Public Service Staff Code. DMPR
Policies. Skills: Ability to interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety Act. DMPR Policies and
staff codes. Management, Planning, Leading, Organisational and Controlling skills. Report
writing and formulation. Good interpersonal relations. Be able to recommend mining
engineering solutions. Negotiation skills. Language proficiency. Computer skills, Thinking
Demand: innovative thinker. Analyse situations carefully, make fair and reasonable decision.
Receptive to suggestion and ideas. Be able to stay calm and collective during difficult situations.
Dyanmic personality. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and
integrity assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection on plants,
structure, track bound trackless mining equipment and electrical distribution systems and take
33
the necessary enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report on mine related
accident, contraventions and complaints as well as the analyse mine accidents and trends to
determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action. test and license and report
thereon, of equipment on mines, winders lifts, chairlifts, boilers and conduct statutory
inspections. Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate, consult and provide of
input on mines closure, prospecting rights, mining rights and permit, EMP’s and township
development. Provide inputs to regional reports, revision of machinery regulations, guideline,
standard, application of exemptions, permission and approvals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Gogela Tel No: (013) 653 0538
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment10@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/44 : SENIOR VETTING INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Risk Management/ Safety and Security Management/ Social Science (NQF
6) PLUS with minimum of 3 year’s investigation experience. Driver’s licence: Knowledge of:
Departmental policies, MISS document, Record management. Security Risks. Security Vetting,
related Acts, Vetting legislation and procedures and strategies. Skills: Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making, programme and project management. Team leadership. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication skills. Computer skills, Delegation and developmental of
others. Planning, organising and execution. Ability to manage conflict. Diplomacy. Language
proficiency. Listening and insight skills. Interviewing skills. Thinking Demand: Analytical thinking
and creativity. Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting field-work investigations. Provide inputs for the development and
implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting investigations. Ensure
effective communication channels and systems between the Department and National
Intelligence Agency (NIA) and other related agencies. Administer files and partake in task teams
dealing with matters related to vetting projects/ processes. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Jacobs at 079 693 8628
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment11@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/45 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BID MANAGEMENT (ACQUISITION) REF NO: 026
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Supply Chain Management/ Purchasing Management/ Logistics Management /
Public Administration/Public Management (NQF 7) with minimum of 3 years supervisory
experience at Supply Chain Management. Knowledge: Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain
Management framework, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), PPPFA, Preferential
Procurement Regulations and Logis. Skills: Computer literacy, good verbal and written
Communication, Financial Management, Interpersonal relations, Ability to communicate at all
levels. Thinking Demand: logical, creative/ innovative thinker. Objective, accurate, diplomatic.
Recommendation/Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as attachment on
a PDF format.
DUTIES : Provide acquisition management services, Monitor/ compile and coordinate bidding processes,
Co-ordinate and verify consolidated inputs for the Bid Adjudication and Bid Evaluation
Committees, Provide Managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Kwena Nong at (083) 996 5802
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment12@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Male candidates are encouraged to apply.
34
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are encouraged to
apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and the NPA Employment Equity Strategy
2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form obtainable from
any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV ONLY (with detailed
experience information). Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by
SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications
evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). Handwritten
Z83 must be completed in Block Letters. If the Z83 is not completed as prescribed your
application will not be accepted. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing
date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents should not be password
protected, and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays.
All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an
Electronic Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed applications. Please DO NOT
contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your applications to enquire if your
application(s) have been received. If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt
within one week after the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the
right not to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from the
closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Successful
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance of at least confidential. Appointment to this
position will be provisional, pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken
on the day of the interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be
accessed as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement where
applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will test
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment
tools. A Pre-entry certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-entry certificate to
be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments are exempted from the pre-entry
certificate requirement. This is a Public Service specific training programme. The name of the
course is Certificate for entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.. Applicants are advised
that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for employment (Z83) is in use. The new
application for employment form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1
January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect (old) application for
employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who are successful must please
note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs. NB! All employees considered
for appointment to the Investigating Directorate Against Corruption will be subject to a lifestyle
audit and integrity vetting.
ERRATUM: Administrative Officer (DDPP: Durban) with Recruit 2025/242, Senior
Organisational Development Practitioner (Pretoria: Head Office) with Ref No: Recruit 2025/320;
Registry Clerk (DDPP: Bhisho) with Ref No: Recruit 2025/265, Court Preparation Officer (CPP:
Ntuzuma) with Ref No: Recruit 2025/194 and Assistant Director: Contract Management
(Pretoria: Head Office) with recruit 2025/164 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15
dated 09 May 2025 are hereby withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/46 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/182 (OCC)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
35
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil and/or criminal litigation. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be added advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience in the
prosecution of organised crime cases. Admission as an advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32
of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court.
Experience in guiding criminal investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences. Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills. Knowledge of asset
forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Strong computer skills and knowledge of programs
in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work independently.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised crime cases and terrorism and terror
financing matters. Advise the police on the investigation of serious, complex organised crime
cases and other matters. Conduct legal research and keep up to date with legal developments.
Draft charge sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all courts. Draft heads
of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court, lead witnesses, cross examine and
address the court on conviction and sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do
appeals and reviews. Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Attend represent
the Organised Crime Unit in stakeholder meetings. Participate in the performance assessment
of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Glittering Hlophe Tel No: (012) 845 6336
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025182@npa.gov.za
POST 18/47 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office Ref No: Recruit 2025/199 (X2 Posts)
North Gauteng Ref No: Recruit 2025/269
Pietermaritzburg Ref No: Recruit 2025/288
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
eight (8) years post qualification experience. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good knowledge of civil litigation and
criminal procedure. Ability to plan, prioritise and manage. Strong computer skills and knowledge
of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Ability to work independently. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor civil litigation and defend civil claims on behalf of the State. Obtain
background documents and court transcripts. Study case dockets, conduct legal research. Draft
and provide State Attorneys with recommendations in respect of civil matters. Draft
correspondences, pleadings and affidavits. Arrange and attend consultations with the State
Attorneys, counsel and witnesses. Deal with civil applications. Evaluate service level
agreements and give legal advice. Improve functional relationship with stakeholders. Constant
follow up with relevant stake holders.
ENQUIRIES : Pretoria: Head Office; North Gauteng & Pietermaritzburg Jerry Mokwape Tel No: (012) 845
6578
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Head Office e mail: Recruit2025199@npa.gov.za
North Gauteng e mail: Recruit2025269@npa.gov.za
Pietermaritzburg e mail: Recruit2025288@npa.gov.za
POST 18/48 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR (COMMUNITY PROSECUTION) REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/331
National Prosecution Service
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (Level LP 9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
eight (8) years post qualification litigation experience. Demonstrate required competency in:
Acting Independently, Professionally, be Accountable and act with Credibility. Knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to the public service specifically: The Constitution;
Criminal Procedure Act; Public Service Act, relevant Regulations and other related Legislation.
General management skills. Strategic management and stakeholder engagement expertise.
People management and empowerment skills. Good communication skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. Project management. Excellent
administrative skills and report writing skills. Service delivery and innovation skills. Negotiation
skills. Policy analysis and development of policy. Research, presentation, and facilitation skills.
Must be able to travel in the DPP-division and nationally. Positive security clearance. Valid
driver’s license is essential.
36
DUTIES : Develop local crime prevention initiatives and strategies in line with the Community Prosecution
Initiative (CPI). Contribute to crime prevention and community justice through this initiative.
Analyse local crime trends and dynamics of crime and insecurities of communities in respective
DPP-divisions. Organize, execute, and participate in community prosecution events and
meetings locally, provincially and nationally. Build strategic partnerships for local crime
prevention initiatives. Develop effective and efficient working relationships with internal and
external stakeholders including current NPA Community Prosecution colleagues. Expand and
increase the impact of the current CPI footprint in the division and nationally as a whole. Provide
and promote education about the law to targeted groups within this initiative. Promote effective
collaboration, interaction and cultivate partnerships with- and between stakeholders. Apply
Batho Pele principles, Service Charter- and NPA processes. Participate, contribute, and
represent the NPA at interdepartmental, local government, divisional and national structures.
To monitor and evaluate statistical data and performance of initiatives implemented in the
division where appointed. To develop and implement interventions in the divisions in line with
the analysis of the statistical data. To provide feedback and the submission of reports (as
determined by the National Coordinator at Head Office), regarding the identification of initiatives,
the implementation thereof, progress and management of all related activities and initiatives in
respective divisions, to both the DPP and the Office of the National Head Office Coordinator.
Furthermore, it will be expected of the incumbent to also perform prosecutorial related duties
such as prosecutor-guided investigations, the management of dockets, court and case
management and the actual prosecution of related cases when required.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025331@npa.gov.za
POST 18/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/339
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (MMS Level 12), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Risk
Management or Disaster Risk Management or equivalent. At least five (5) years working
experience within the Enterprise Risk Management environment at Assistant Director position
level. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Sound working knowledge of the legislative requirements relating to Business
Continuity Management. Working experience within the Business Continuity Management
environment. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word,
Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication
skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. People management and empowerment.
Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support the Directorate and the Business unit head in the management and execution of
enterprise risk management. Assist the business unit in developing plans and controls for
enterprise risk management. Support management in the identification, evaluation, and
managing risks and risks control strategies. Provide Business Units with guidance and
assistance in the development of risk mitigation plans. Coordinate and comply monthly reports
in the unit’s performance in mitigating risks. Coordinate the collection, analysis, interpretation,
and presentation of information regarding risk management for the business unit and provide
reports. Drive and facilitate the embedding of risk management into the respective business
unit, business activities processes and systems. Serve as a link between employees and
management in the ongoing management, administration and communication of the Enterprise
Risk Management system and its components.
ENQUIRIES : Makgomo Thupana Tel No: 012 845 6176
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025339@npa.gov.za
POST 18/50 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/332
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’
post qualification legal experience. At least five years relevant criminal court work experience
in advocacy and drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to
common law offences such as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related
matters. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters. Knowledge of income Tax Act, Vat Act, Customs and Excise Act.
Knowledge and understanding of SARS functions and financial or accounting background.
Interpersonal skills, Written and verbal communication skills. Administrative skills. Able to work
extended hours. Drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents, dealing with
representations. Valid driver’s licence.
37
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the institution of prosecution.
Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex or more difficult tax matters,
including commercial matters. Prepare cases for court, including the acquisition of additional
evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments, and court documents. Present the State’s case
in court, lead and cross examine witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Manage court and case flow management of cases independently. Study and deal
with appeals and reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of argument for complex matters and
argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and general conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Mentor and guide investigating
officers, prosecutors, and stakeholders. Assist in keeping proper records, statistics, and reports.
Assist in high profile tax matters or matters where an increased risk element is present. Manage
any portfolio assigned by the Deputy Director managing the STU. Consult on a regular basis
with all the relevant stakeholders, including SARS officials. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025332@npa.gov.za
POST 18/51 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/333
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’
post qualification legal experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency in prosecution,
competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents
and dealing with representations. Knowledge of and skills in general prosecution. High level of
proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills. Written
and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct
criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Represent
the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the acquisition of additional evidence
and draft charge sheets and indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross
examine witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study appeal and
reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of arguments and argue cases
in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal matters and
in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in
accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in
the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025333@npa.gov.za
POST 18/52 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/334
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
five (5) years post qualification experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining
to Public Service Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management
Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014.
General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms
outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills.
Research skills and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed
in or assigned to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office
particulars of all registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting
conducted in terms of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review
conducted. No previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising
skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Lead complaints and conduct investigation received within the NPA and the general public.
Liaise with complainants on the status of the investigation. Investigate cases allocated to the
38
division and assign to the investigation lead. Examine sources evidence and perform analysis.
Conduct interviews as appropriate compiled investigation report with well informed findings and
recommendations, liaise with complainants and ensure regular feedback to complainants on
the status of the investigation. Liaise with law enforcement agencies with regard to the referral
of cases of criminal misconduct. Ensure delivery of strategic objectives and performance targets
as per Annual Performance Plan. Lead and conduct fraud and corruption investigation within
the NPA. Investigate fraud and corruption, unethical conduct, irregular expenditure, financial
misconduct and hotline related cases. Perform risk assessment and identify issues related to
fraud and corruption. Liaise with Labour Relations unit and other units to ensure speedy
resolution of reported cases. Develop complaints management policies and protocols. Monitor
the implementation of complaints management policies and protocols. Conduct ad hoc
investigation research. Regular research to obtain information necessary to carry out an
investigation. Ensure knowledge of applicable public service legislations and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025334@npa.gov.za
POST 18/53 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/335
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321.per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
five (5) years post qualification legal experience in civil and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Professional and able
to work independently. Willing to travel and able to work extended hours. Excellent
communication skills. Well-developed skills in legal drafting and advocacy. Good knowledge of
Asset Forfeiture Law will be an added advantage. Excellent interpersonal, analytical and
presentation skills. Strong computer skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint. Literacy and numeracy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of freezing of property and obtaining
final forfeiture confiscation orders. Liaise with prosecutors on cases with asset forfeiture
potential. Draft and present asset forfeiture applications in all courts. Train prosecutors and
investigators in the use of Asser Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025335@npa.gov.za
POST 18/54 : STATE ADVOCATE
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321.per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/336
North Gauteng Ref No: Recruit 2025/337
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
five (5) years post qualification experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Experience in civil litigation will be an added
advantage. Display knowledge of relevant prescripts, policies and practices Ability to apply
technical or professional knowledge and skills. Execute functions as instructed and within the
agreed timeframes including punctuality. Communications: Ability to express facts, ideas and
arguments clearly and logically, both orally and in writing (In and out of court). Planning and
execution: Ability to plan, prioritise and manage. Ability to plan effectively and efficiently. Ability
to execute planning. Strong computer skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint. A positive security clearance. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will act as nodal point for the Legal Affairs Division. Manage
contingency liability register for the Legal Affairs Division. Manage and monitor civil litigation
and deal with civil claims on behalf of the State in the division. Obtain background documents
and court transcripts. Study case dockets, conduct legal research. Draft and provide State
Attorneys and relevant role players with recommendations in respect of civil matters. Draft and
settle correspondence, pleadings and affidavits. Arrange and attend consultations with the State
Attorneys, counsel and NPA witnesses. Deal with civil applications. Give legal advice and
provide training. Improve functional relationship with stakeholders. Liaison with relevant
stakeholders. Appear in court where applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Mthatha Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
North Gauteng Jerry Mokwape Tel No: (012) 845 6578
APPLICATIONS : Mthatha e mail: Recruit2025336@npa.gov.za
North Gauteng e mail: Recruit2025337@npa.gov.za
39
POST 18/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ETHICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/338
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (MMS Level 11), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6). Minimum
three (3) years relevant experience in management of strategic and providing operational
support within the NPA through conflict-of-interest management, ethics management/integrity
or anti-corruption strategies, evaluation and monitoring on the integrity of the organisation.
Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an added advantage. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation
and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration including the Public Service Act 103
of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public
Finance Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public
Administration Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such
as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal
communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively.
Candidates to be appointed in or assigned to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA)
must disclose to the office particulars of all registrable financial interests, obtain security
clearance following a vetting conducted in terms of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994
as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No previous convictions or pending cases. Good
administration skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic capability and
leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem
solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the NPA fraud and corruption strategy/Ethics Strategy. Manage financial
declarations and ensure compliance. Monitor and ensure integrity assessments are conducted
in order to identify ethical gaps. Manage and conduct lifestyle audits for all designated, identified
and reported employees. Develop and review the ethics management policies, procedures, and
practices. Monitor, evaluate and report on remunerative work performed outside the Public
Service by NPA officials. Monitor and evaluate integrity systems and processes within the NPA
(Gifts, declaration of interests and sponsorships registers). Manage and report on the ethics
performance of the organization. Manage staff and other resources within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025338@npa.gov.za
POST 18/56 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/340
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (excluding benefits), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : CPP: East London
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
four (4) years post qualification legal experience. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the
ability to act independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting. Experience
in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences in regional court.
Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills. Good presentation skills. Good project
management skills. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge
sheets and other documents and represent the State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-
examine and address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct
prosecutions on behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with
partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Talita Raga Tel No: (040) 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: Recruit2025340@npa.gov.za
POST 18/57 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 2 REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/341
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (excluding benefits), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : CPP: Witbank (Delmas)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal qualification. At least
four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting,
guiding investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult common
law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting complex charge sheets and
other complex court documents. Must be able to act independently without constant supervision
and manage court and case flow independently. Good management and administrative skills.
40
General computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad Outlook.
High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to identify and handle
confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures
applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide on the institution
of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters and inquest of a general and more
advanced nature in the Regional Court and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft
charge sheets and other proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the
State’s case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-alia,
conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform
all duties related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the
National Prosecuting Authority. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance
assessment of staff. Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025341@npa.gov.za
POST 18/58 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/342
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6). Minimum 3
years’ experience as a Human Resource Generalist. Extensive knowledge of the recruitment
process and procedure; performance management system. Extensive experience in working on
PERSAL. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and
with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service
administration, specifically the Public Service Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act and
Access to Information act. Understanding of the Public Service generally and Human
Resources. Sound knowledge of labour and public service legislation. Good communication,
liaison and presentation skills. Working knowledge of PERSAL (PERSAL certificates to be
attached). A good command of computer literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work under pressure. Good administration skills.
People management and empowerment. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. Management and leadership skills. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide HR administration services to the region (Recruitment & Selection, Conditions of
Service, Staff Retention, Exit, Training and Development, PMDS, EWP, Long Service
Recognition, Service Excellence Awards, Benefits, TSP etc). Capture personal information on
the payroll system. Monitor the implementation of recruitment and selection of human resource
services. Monitor implementation of service benefits. Facilitate the administration of human
resource development services in the region. Compile monthly reports and statistics. Manage
staff and provide guidance on HR related matters. Implement and ensure compliance with
policies and procedures. Liaise with customers and stakeholders. Maintain and administer
PERSAL information including leave applications. Prepare Human Resources reports and
submit same to the Director: Administration. PERSAL administration, staff procurement, training
and development, service conditions, staff exits and transfers. Manage the implementation of
the Employment Equity Targets. Manage all activities relating to performance management.
Perform any other duties deemed necessary by management.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025342@npa.gov.za
POST 18/59 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EDUCATION AND AWARENESS REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/343
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Public
Management/ Social Science/ Communication and Education or equivalent qualification. At
least three (3) years’ experience in management of ethics, education training, communication,
integrity or anti-corruption strategies. Ability to promote a culture of integrity. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
analysis and problem-solving skills. Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration
including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected
Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good
presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal
41
skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned to the Office for
Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all registrable financial
interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms of the National
Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No previous convictions
or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic
capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Promote integrity and ethical behaviour in the NPA. Develop and implement communications
strategy to address IMU mandate. Monitor and report on the organizations’ integrity. Develop
and implement advocacy and awareness programs.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025343@npa.gov.za
POST 18/60 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ETHICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/344 (X2
POSTS)
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6). At least three
(3) years’ experience in providing operational support in the development and the
implementation of departmental systems, policies and processes in ethics, integrity, and
conflict-of-interest management to prevent unethical behaviour as part of realising a culture.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Excellent analysis and problem-solving skills. Certification as an Ethics Officer will
be an added advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service
Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of
1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and
PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills
and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned
to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all
registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms
of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No
previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and
empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Administer and coordinate senior managers and middle management members’ financial
declarations are submitted within prescribed timeframes to ensure compliance with the Public
Service Regulations 2016 in terms of annual submissions of financial disclosures. Identify
ethical gaps by conducting ethics risk analysis and lifestyle reviews within NPA. Develop and
implement the fraud and corruption plan for the NPA. Monitoring, evaluate and report on
remunerative work performed outside the Public Service for the NPA officials. Monitor and
evaluate integrity systems and processes within the Department (gifts, declaration of interests’
registers). Development and reviewing of ethics management policies, procedures and
practices. Coordinate and provide ethics management statistics on monthly, quarterly and
annual basis. Provide administrative support duties to the Directorate Ethics Management and
Advocacy.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025344@npa.gov.za
POST 18/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE INSPECTION AND IMPROVEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/345 (X2 POSTS)
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6). At least three
(3) years’ experience in management and execution service inspections and service delivery
improvement programme. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent analysis and problem-solving skills. Certification as
an Ethics Officer will be an added advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to Public Service Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance
Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration
Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word,
Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication
skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be
appointed in or assigned to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the
office particulars of all registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting
42
conducted in terms of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review
conducted. No previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising
skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Conduct service inspections within the NPA. Conduct preparatory research for service
inspection including data sourcing and analysis. Notify target audience of inspection. Conduct
interviews and/ workshop where appropriate. Gather service performance data and information
from inspection site. Compile and submit service inspection reports. Obtain, review and
incorporate feedback on service inspection reports. Inspect feedback for possible inspections.
Develop and implement service delivery programmes. (SDIP, Service Standards, Service
Charter, Service Delivery Model and Complaints Management).
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025345@npa.gov.za
POST 18/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLAINTS INVESTIGATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/346 (X3
POSTS)
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Law or
Forensic investigation, policing, auditing or equivalent qualification. At least three (3) years’
experience in coordination, planning and leading the execution of complaints, fraud and
corruption investigations. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent analysis and problem-solving skills. Certification as
an Ethics Officer will be an added advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to Public Service Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance
Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration
Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word,
Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication
skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be
appointed in or assigned to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the
office particulars of all registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting
conducted in terms of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review
conducted. No previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising
skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Lead complaints investigation received within the NPA and the general public. Lead fraud and
corruption investigations within the NPA. Conduct investigation research. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025346@npa.gov.za
POST 18/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/347
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Supply
Chain Management or Finance/Accounting or equivalent, Minimum three (3) years relevant
experience in Supply Chain Management and experience in government procurement
management environment particularly Contract Management. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Extensive knowledge of
the PFMA, PPPFA, BBBEE, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management and other
relevant public service prescripts. Willing to travel, able to work extended hours where
necessary. Good negotiating skills. Good interpersonal skills. Good Planning and organizing
skills. Excellent communication and administrative skills. Advanced computer literacy in Ms
Office packages (Ms Word, Ms excel, Ms PowerPoint) and outlook. A Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Drafting of contracts/service level agreements/Addenda. Review proposals, bids and
SLA/contracts. Manage contract life cycle, attend to contractual queries, issue notices of default,
and notices of termination. Assist with SLA/Contract legalities, policies and practices to internal
users/Business Units and clients. Analyze contract/SLA requirements, special provisions, terms
and conditions to applicable laws, regulations, policies and business processes. Internal and
external communication in terms of SLAs/Contracts. Creating and reviewing of measurable
vendor performance evaluation document. Capturing and uploading of contracts/SLAs and
vendor performance reports on the Contract Management System. Attend to Variation and
Expansion of contracts, amendment of contract conditions, price adjustments, contract
cancellations and restrictions. Propose and advise on remedial actions in case of poor or non-
performance by service providers. Assist in prevention/or resolving contractual disputes and
43
propose implementation of remedial plan. Compile monthly report on the performance of
Contract Management section. Perform monthly contract management monitoring activities.
Perform contract close-out activities. Conduct SLA/contract execution, review and close-out
meetings. Provide guidance and support to contract stakeholders and ensure that contract
obligations are met. Define, communicate and manage specific SLA metrics. Monitor
contracts/SLA performance and ensure compliance by suppliers/vendors and the NPA. Perform
inspections/meetings, where applicable. Issue notices of expiry of contracts to business units
and service providers timely before termination. Develop the negotiation position after
considering identified contractual issues. Identify the negotiating team members and
arrange/facilitate the briefing session of the negotiating team. Convene negotiation meetings
where necessary and keep record thereof. Review of contract negotiation documents and
making follow-up on outstanding issues. Document control, record keeping and ensure integrity
of negotiation proceedings. Ensure distribution of contract documents to all stakeholders.
Conduct research where applicable to support SLA/Contracts. Serve as a member of Bid
Specification and/or Evaluation Committees. Provide inputs to the development/or review of the
Supply Chain Management Policy. Ensure good record/filing management. Reduce audit
queries by providing report/records for audit purposes. Safekeeping of contracts and all relevant
information. Ensure distribution of necessary information to contract stakeholders/end-users.
ENQUIRIES : Doctor Shokwane Tel No: (012) 845 6227
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025347@npa.gov.za
POST 18/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/348
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Risk
Management or Disaster Risk Management or equivalent. At least three (3) years working
experience within the Enterprise Risk Management environment. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound working
knowledge of the legislative requirements relating to Business Continuity Management. Working
experience within the Business Continuity Management environment. General computer
literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint.
Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and
interpersonal skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic capability and
leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem
solving and decision making. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist the Directorate and the business unit head in the management and execution of
enterprise risk management. Assist the business unit in developing plans and controls for
enterprise risk management. Assist management in the identification, evaluation, and managing
risks and risks control strategies. Assist business units with guidance and assistance in the
development of risk mitigation plans. Assist with the coordination and compilation of monthly
risk mitigation reports in the unit. Assist with the coordination, collection, analysis, interpretation,
and presentation of information regarding risk management for the business unit. Assist with
driving and facilitating the embedding of risk management into the respective business unit,
business activities processes and systems.
ENQUIRIES : Makgomo Thupana Tel No: (012) 845 6176
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025348@npa.gov.za
POST 18/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/349
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Internal Audit/
Risk Management/ Commerce/Financial Management or equivalent. At least three (3) years
working experience in Enterprise Risk Management/Auditing field on a Supervisory level.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Sound working knowledge of the legislative requirements relating to Business
Continuity Management. Working experience within the Business Continuity Management and
Risk Management environment. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs
such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and
verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. People management and
empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and implement the risk management framework and plan in the organisation.
Supervise, facilitate and advice on the risk assessment process. Supervise and support the
enhancement of risk culture and awareness in the NPA. Supervise and undertake studies and
analysis for identifying risks to establish the internal and external organisation context.
Supervise employee/s to ensure an effective enterprise risk management service.
ENQUIRIES : Makgomo Thupana Tel No: (012) 845 6176
44
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025349@npa.gov.za
POST 18/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC SUPPORT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/350
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) Strategy
Management, Public Administration or equivalent qualification. Minimum three (3) years working
within performance information management, monitoring and evaluation or strategy
management environment. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Willing to travel, able to work extended hours. Understanding
of the strategic planning process and planning cycle. Sound Knowledge of relevant legislation
and framework governing strategic planning. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in
programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal skills. People
management and empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising
skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide support with regard to the coordination and facilitation of strategic and annual
operational planning process. Initiate the development of strategic plan concept document,
prepare agenda and logistical services. Develop, update and maintain the planning schedule.
Develop and distribute annual performance and operational plan templates. Coordinate the
development of annual performance and operational plans by business units. Assist with
facilitation at operational planning sessions. Compile and moderate the annual performance
plan, annual operational plans and ensure alignment and compliance to the planning
framework. Provide administrative support services within the Directorate. Participate in the
development and reviewing of strategy management policies and processes. Keep records of
approved plans. Prepare planning packs and any other logistical needs to ensure smooth and
effective delivery of planning sessions. Provide inputs towards the monthly and quarterly
performance reporting for the directorate. Support on-going innovation and culture change
initiatives within the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Thapelo Molokomme Tel No: (012) 845 6375
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025350@npa.gov.za
POST 18/67 : NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/351
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems and Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Information
Technology or equivalent. Industry related qualification such as ArubaOS-CX switching
Fundamentals (ACSA), CCNA, Network+, Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)
will be an added advantage. Three (3) years working experience in an IT environment.
Knowledge of Microsoft Windows Server 2022 networking, LAN Administration, Wide Area
Network Administration, Network User Administration, Administration of Microsoft DHCP server
2022. Knowledge of administering backup and security systems. Must have the ability to work
under pressure. Reliable, organized and be able to work in a team and independently.
Knowledge of Microsoft Office/Office 365. IT technical knowledge and application. Good
communication skills. Willing to work extended hours and willing to travel. Valid driver’s license
required.
DUTIES : Maintaining computer networks and systems including software, servers, VPNs, routers and
other physical hardware. Installing and configuring network equipment to update or fix hardware
or software issues. Updating virus protection software to keep data and communications
protected. Monitoring computer systems to improve network performance for computer systems
and networks. Communicating networking issues to other employees and management,
especially in training new users. Fixing software and hardware configuration issues for users
on-demand or from inspection of the systems. Monitoring computer networks and systems to
identify how performance can be improved. Write technical support documentation for network
systems and applications.
ENQUIRIES : Samuel Masombuka Tel No: (012) 845 6442
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025351@npa.gov.za
POST 18/68 : SENIOR ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/352
Strategy Operations and Compliance: HRM & D: Organisational Development
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
45
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in Management
Services/Operations Management/Production Management or related qualification i.e.
Industrial Psychology. Minimum of two (2) years’ experience in the field of organisational
design/development/work-study. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations and NPA Act. Good knowledge of organisational design, frameworks,
practices, and processes in the public service. Knowledge of various DPSA directives, circulars
etc. related to organisational development/change management. Knowledge of Human
Resource Management and labour relations in general. Knowledge of job evaluation process,
business process management, Total quality management, project management principles and
methodologies. Strong Project management skills. Practical knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite
(Specifically Project, Visio, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook) and Bizagi Process Modeller.
Communication skill (both written and verbal). Presentation skill. Good report writing skills.
People management and empowerment. Knowledge of the Compensate-Evaluate job
evaluation system A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Undertake work-study investigations within the NPA. Conduct job evaluation exercises. Compile
and review job descriptions. Conduct business process mapping. Optimise work procedures
and methods (work processes, workflow and standard operating procedures). Render
organisation development administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Vukosi Shibambu Tel No: (012) 845 6211
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025352@npa.gov.za
POST 18/69 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LOGISTICS REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/353
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6) in Logistics
Management, Purchasing Management, Supply Chain Management, Public Administration or
equivalent. Minimum two (2) years’ relevant experience in logistics (Orders and Warehouse).
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of PFMA, Logistical Information System (LOGIS), Treasury Regulations
and Preferential Procurement Policy framework Act. Communication skills, Organising skills and
analytical skills. Computer literacy including Microsoft Office (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint,
Outlook). Ability to work independently and under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good
administration skills.
DUTIES : Administer Orders on LOGIS for leases, contracts and once-off payments; Capture requests on
LOGIS Mainframe; Approve Procurement Advice on LOGIS Mainframe; Authorise Petty Cash
vouchers and Orders on LOGIS Mainframe; Sending Orders to service providers; Liaising with
internal clients on the status of their requisitions; Keeping and updating of requisitions and Order
Register; Compile Requisition Report on monthly basis.
ENQUIRIES : John Solomon Tel No: (012) 845 6770
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025353@npa.gov.za
POST 18/70 : ASSET OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/354
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Assets, Fleet and Facilities Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum two (2) years
relevant experience in Asset and Disposal Management. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good communication skills,
written and verbal. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint. Willing to travel and able to work after hours. High level of reliability and able to
work independently. Knowledge of PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Provide support to Asset & Disposal Management. Asset verification. Update the asset register.
Managing asset disposals within the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Motsepe Tel No: (012) 845 6019
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025354@npa.gov.za
POST 18/71 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSETS, FLEET & FACILITIES REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/355
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Assets, Fleet and Facilities Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum two (2) years
relevant experience in Fleet, Facilities and Travel environment. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good communication
skills, written and verbal. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint. Willing to travel and able to work after hours. High level of reliability and able
46
to work independently. Knowledge of PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. A valid driver’s
license
DUTIES : Compile payments to service providers. Ensuring that buildings are properly maintained. Liaise
with both internal and external stakeholders. Assist with assets verification when necessary.
Assist with travel office on ad hoc basis. Assist with fleet administration on ad hoc basis.
ENQUIRIES : Elias Lukhwareni Tel No: (012) 845 6095
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025355@npa.gov.za
POST 18/72 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRAVEL AND FLEET REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/356
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Assets, Fleet and Facilities Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum two (2) years
relevant experience in Fleet, Facilities and Travel environment. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good communication
skills, written and verbal. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint. Willing to travel and able to work after hours. High level of reliability and able
to work independently. Knowledge of PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Fleet administration. Travel bookings. Payment to suppliers. General administration.
ENQUIRIES : Kedibone Shayi Tel No: (012) 845 6566
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025356@npa.gov.za
POST 18/73 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/357
Office for the Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three (3) years’
experience in rendering support service to senior management. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. General computer
literacy. Language skills and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different background. Good telephone etiquette and sound organisational skills. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Knowledge of the relevant
legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial, administration support (including answering telephone and handling of diary
to the manager) Typing letters, memorandums and presentations. Operate office equipment like
fax machines and photocopiers. Make travel and logistical arrangements for meetings and
events. Prepare travel documentation and coordinate bookings. Take minutes during meetings.
Develop maintain an accessible and user-friendly filing system. Performing secretarial and other
related administration tasks. Ensure effective flow of information and documents to and from
the office of the manager. Obtain inputs, collates and compiles reports such as progress reports,
Monthly reports and management reports. Respond to enquiries received from internal and
external stakeholders. Draft documents as required. Manage leave registers and telephone
accounts for the unit. Handle the procurement of standard items such as stationery,
refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025357@npa.gov.za
POST 18/74 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/358
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three (3) years’
experience in rendering support service to senior management. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. General computer
literacy. Language skills and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different background. Good telephone etiquette and sound organisational skills. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Knowledge of the relevant
legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector. Basic knowledge
of financial administration. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To render administration services within the legal administration section and to the office of the
Director of Public Prosecutions. Provide high quality administrative support to the office of the
senior managers and Director of Public Prosecutions. Receive guests and visitors and
screening calls. Liaise and communicate with a range of stakeholders in the justice sector. Plan,
organize and co-ordinate events, meetings or other arrangements. Provide comprehensive
docket management and administrative services to the prosecutorial process in the office.
47
Receive and open all incoming mail, documents and dockets to ensure correct referencing of
all correspondences received. Regular check for priority documents and thorough checking for
correctness of documents. Ensure appropriate filing system, provide high quality typing service
to the unit. Make travel and accommodation arrangements when necessary for Senior
Management. Guide and supervise admin staff within the legal section. Manage all HR functions
of the DPP and SMS members i.e. prepare and submit assessments and leave to HR. Keep all
records. Diary management.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025358@npa.gov.za
POST 18/75 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/359
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three (3) years’
experience in rendering support service to senior management. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. General computer
literacy. Language skills and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different background. Good telephone etiquette and above average planning and organizing
skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to conduct
legal research. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to identify and handle confidential
matters, and to keep confidential matters as such. Good grooming, presentation and
professionalism. Knowledge of the relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures
applicable in the public sector. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and administration support in the office of the Special Director of Public
Prosecutions. Receiving and screening of telephone calls and referring calls to the correct role
players if not meant for the SDPP. Type documents for the office. Operate office equipment like
fax machines and photocopiers. Provide clerical support services to the office. Make travel and
logistical arrangements for meetings and events, process travel and subsistence claims. Take
minutes during meetings. Draft routine correspondence. Develop and maintain an accessible
and user-friendly filing system. Handle procurement of standard items such as stationary. Liaise
with other offices of the NPA and Administration with regard to all matters pertaining to the
administrative functions of the office. Re direct correspondence addressed to the SDPP to the
relevant offices.
ENQUIRIES : Jerry Mokwape Tel No: (012) 845 6578
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025359@npa.gov.za
POST 18/76 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: COMPLAINTS INVESTIGATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/360
(X3 POSTS)
Office for the Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B - degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6). Minimum two
(2) years relevant experience in planning and facilitation of reported complaints. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
analysis and problem-solving skills. Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration
including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected
Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good
presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal
skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned to the Office for
Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all registrable financial
interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms of the National
Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No previous convictions
or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic
capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure proper complaints management process, prepare updates and provide progress reports
on complaints under investigation. Disseminate complaints to investigators for investigation.
Compile and provide statistics and progress reports on investigations. Provide administrative
support within the Directorate by handling routine enquiries. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register for the office. Record, organize, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025360@npa.gov.za
48
POST 18/77 : ETHICS OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/361
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum two (2)
year’s relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration including
the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public
Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of 1999, Protected
Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good
presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal
skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned to the Office for
Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all registrable financial
interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms of the National
Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No previous convictions
or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic
capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Administer conflict of interest management within the NPA. Provide administrative support
within the Directorate. Assist in the development of an ethics management strategy. Assist with
the management, coordination and implement the financial disclosure framework including
lifestyle review and consultation identified and reported employees as part of prevention.
Administer, coordinate and monitor remunerative work performed outside the Public Service for
NPA officials. Assist in the development and reviewing of ethics management policies,
procedures and practices. Coordinate, monitor, administer, report and provide advice on
policies, systems, processes and/or any other initiatives introduced as part of promoting culture
of integrity and ethical behaviour (ORW, gifts, declaration of interest etc.). Coordinate ethics
management statistics on monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Provide administrative support
duties to the Directorate Ethics Management and Advocacy.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025361@npa.gov.za
POST 18/78 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: COMPLAINTS REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/362
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum of at least
two (2) year’s relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service
Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of
1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and
PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills
and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned
to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all
registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms
of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No
previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and
empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide an effective scanning of internal and external complaints. Allocate complaints to
relevant business units for further action. Provide feedback on complaint lodged on the
database. Provide administrative support. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025362@npa.gov.za
POST 18/79 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SERVICE INSPECTION AND IMPROVEMENT REF NO:
RECRUIT 2025/363 (X4 POSTS)
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum of at least
two (2) year’s relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Certification as an Ethics Officer will be an
49
added advantage. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service
Administration including the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1 of
1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration Act 11 of 2014. General
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and
PowerPoint. Good presentation skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills
and interpersonal skills. Willing to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned
to the Office for Ethics and Accountability (OEA) must disclose to the office particulars of all
registrable financial interests, obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms
of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No
previous convictions or pending cases. Good administration skills. People management and
empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct service inspections within the NPA. Compile service inspection reports. Obtain, review
and incorporate feedback on service inspection reports. Develop Service Delivery Improvement
Programme. (SDIP, Service Standards, Service Charter, Service Delivery Model and
Complaints Management).
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025363@npa.gov.za
POST 18/80 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/364
(Re-advert)
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Security Management Service
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : North Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in Public
Administration/Public management or equivalent. At least two years’ experience relevant
experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Ability to identify and handle confidential matters. Sound planning and
organising skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good People skills. Strong
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act independently. Valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Provide security vetting services in the region. Maintain and update data base with regard to
vetting and court case classification. Conduct personal suitability checks. Collect non-disclosure
forms and maintain a register thereof. Act as a Key control officer according to Service Level
Agreement. Conduct inspection on guarding activities, key control and provide report. Submit
information to National Office. Compile reports and submit to Regional Manager. Conduct OHS
Inspections and maintain OHS file. Request information on high profile cases from Prosecutors.
Attend to any queries with regard to physical and information security services. Attend to OHS
meetings quarterly.
ENQUIRIES : Tshinyadzo Mudau Tel No: (012) 845 6298
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025364@npa.gov.za
POST 18/81 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/365
Security Management Service: Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in Public
Administration/Public management or equivalent. At least two years’ relevant experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Ability to identify and handle confidential matters. Sound planning and organizing
skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in
programs MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good People skills. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Ability to act independently. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide security vetting services in the region. Maintain and update database with regard to
vetting and court case classification. Conduct personal suitability checks. Collect non-disclosure
forms and maintain a register thereof. Act as a Key control officer according to Service Level
Agreement. Conduct inspection on guarding activities, key control and provide report. Submit
information to National Office. Compile reports and submit them to ASD: Security Management
Services. Conduct OHS Inspections and maintain OHS file. Request information on high profile
cases from Prosecutors. Attend to any queries with regard to physical and information security
services.
ENQUIRIES : Tshinyadzo Mudau Tel No: (012) 845 6298
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025365@npa.gov.za
POST 18/82 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Communications Unit
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
50
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2025/366 (Re-advert)
Cape Town Ref No: Recruit 2025/367 (Re-advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in the field of
Communications/Public Relations/ Journalism/ Media Studies or equivalent. Minimum two (2)
years’ experience in communications environment. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic knowledge of legislation
and regulations pertaining to public service administration, specifically: Public Service Act and
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Finance Management Act, NPA Act,
Access to information Act, DPSA directives. Knowledge of public service, knowledge
management, internal and external liaison, publications, advertising and branding, newswriting,
reviewing and proofreading. Knowledge of NPA policies and procedures. Computer skills: MS
Office Suite, MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, MS Project. Editing, project management,
policy analysis and development, supervisory skills, decision making skills, analysis and
problem-solving skills, interpersonal relations, communication (oral and written) skills. Excellent
report writing skills. Task or time management skills. Conflict management, planning, research,
presentation and facilitation.
DUTIES : Provide media support to the Regional Communication Manager. Assist with media queries in
the region. Event management and public education and awareness. Provide communication
support to regional business units and corporate managers. Make meaningful inputs to
newsletters and other publications by contributing articles on a regular and sustained basis.
Publish organisational performance information on all internal communication platforms to keep
employees updated. Providing support to internal stakeholders such as the Strategy
Management Office, EWP, IMU, HR, leadership, and both internal and external local events and
campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Vuyolwethu Sigaji Tel No: (012) 845 6214
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein e mail: Recruit2025366@npa.gov.za
Cape Town e mail: Recruit2025367@npa.gov.za
POST 18/83 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/368
(Re-advert)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Queenstown (Graaff- Reinet)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three (3) years’
secretarial experience and/or related administrative experience. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. General computer
literacy. Language skills and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different background. Good telephone etiquette and above average planning and organizing
skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to conduct
legal research. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to identify and handle confidential
matters, and to keep confidential matters as such. Good grooming, presentation and
professionalism. Knowledge of the relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures
applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial, administration support and personal assistance service to the Chief
Prosecutor. Record incoming documents. Check documents for correct referencing before filing.
Ensure that documents production is done making photocopies, facsimile and emails iro
registers. Ensure sufficient case data capturing. Make travel arrangements for meetings and
events, take minutes during meetings, draft routine correspondence, develop and maintain an
accessible and user-friendly filing system. Provide clerical support service to the office.
ENQUIRIES : Pumza Magaxa Tel No: (046) 602 3000
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025368@npa.gov.za
POST 18/84 : FINANCE CLERK: TRAVEL AND FLEET REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/369
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Assets, Fleet and Facilities Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to work
independently without constant supervision. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and
National Treasury Regulations. Good communication skills, verbal and written. Planning and
organizing skills. Good analytical skills. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs
in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Issuing of pool vehicles. Assist in travel bookings. Payment of suppliers. General administration.
ENQUIRIES : Yongeza Tshutshane Tel No: (012) 845 6567
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025369@npa.gov.za
51
POST 18/85 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/370
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and organizing skills, written and verbal
communication. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel;
PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills.
Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a well-organized
administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks pertaining to
the provision of support to line functionaries. Draft correspondence to other organisations and
State departments. Liaise with corporate services with all matters pertaining to the
administrative functioning of the office. Provide administrative support to the legal staff,
pertaining to finance, logistical and human resources. Deliver mails, photocopying, faxing,
receiving and dispatching documents. Provide efficient administrative services in the Cluster.
Liaise with customers and stakeholders. Diary Management. Receive correspondence for the
section. Collect information for civil matters addressed to the unit or group.
ENQUIRIES : Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025370@npa.gov.za
POST 18/86 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/371
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha (Maluti)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent communication and administrative
skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and written communication skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Excellent administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook. Flexibility. Document
administration, writing skills and task time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a well-organized
administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks. Draft
correspondence to members of the public, other organisations, and State departments. Liaise
with administration with all matters pertaining to the administrative functioning of the office.
Provide administrative support to the legal staff, pertaining to finance, logistical and human
resources. Deliver mails, and faxes within the office and render general administrative support
such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching documents. Provide court
administration services. Assist with the efficient management of court rolls. Submit monthly
reports and statistics. Provide case records services.
ENQUIRIES : Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025371@npa.gov.za
POST 18/87 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: COMPLAINTS REGISTRATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/372
(X2 POSTS)
Office for the Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy. Language skills and
ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different background. Good
telephone etiquette and sound organisational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability.
Written communication skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
Ability to act with tact and discretion. Knowledge of the relevant legislations, policies, prescripts
and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Provide effective complaints management support. Ensure incoming complaints are captured
on the database. Provide administrative support with regards to Complaints Management.
Handle routine enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025372@npa.gov.za
POST 18/88 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/181
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Computer literate and proficiency in programs such as MS
52
Word, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook and Excel. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of NPA
policies and procedures relevant to the job functions. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Planning and organizing, flexibility and administrative skills.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the office of Legal Affairs Division. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Provide administrative advice to all components
of the office. Draft correspondence to members of the public, other organizations and State
Departments. Liaise with corporate services with all matters pertaining to the administrative
functioning of the office. Provide administrative support to legal staff, pertaining to finance,
logistical and human resources. Deliver mails and faxes within the office and render general
administrative support such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving and dispatching of
documents. Any other duties as requested by the Assistant Director or a delegated official. or a
delegated official Assist with all case flow related matters; provide Deliver mails and faxes within
the office and render general administrative support such as filing, photocopying and faxing,
receiving dispatching documents.
ENQUIRIES : Jerry Mokwape Tel No: (012) 845 6578
APPLICATIONS e mail: Recruit2025181@npa.gov.za
POST 18/89 : PARALEGAL RECRUIT 2025/168
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: North Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Paralegal Certificate/ Diploma. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Provide assistance with case preparation. Conduct legal research and drafting. Conduct
investigation and fact-finding for cases. Provide courtroom and legal proceedings assistance.
case administration and document management. Provide administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Jerry Mokwape Tel No: (012) 845 6578
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025168@npa.gov.za
POST 18/90 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/169
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: West Rand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent communication and administrative
skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and written communication skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Excellent administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook. Flexibility. Document
administration, writing skills and task time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a well-organized
administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks. Draft
correspondence to members of the public, other organisations, and State departments. Liaise
with administration with all matters pertaining to the administrative functioning of the office.
Provide administrative support to the legal staff, pertaining to finance, logistical and human
resources. Deliver mails, and faxes within the office and render general administrative support
such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching documents. Provide court
administration services. Assist with the efficient management of court rolls. Provide case
records services.
ENQUIRIES : Rosette Swarts Tel No: (011) 220 4114
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025169@npa.gov.za
53
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the filling of this
post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the Director-General,
Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901, Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC
Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign
an application register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their applications
to the following email addresses: For:
Senior Legal Administration Officer- e-recruit.SLO@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Manager Grade 1- e-recruit.SWPM@dsd.gov.za
Legal Administration Officer- e-recruit.LAM@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Developer- e-recruit.SWPW@dsd.gov.za
Registry Clerk- e-recruit.RC@dsd.gov.za
Driver/Messenger- e-recruit.D/M@dsd.gov.za
Food Aide- e-recruit.FA@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two referees must
accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If applying for more than one
position, applicant must submit separate applications for each position. Short listed candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on
the date of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new application
for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in full, failure to use the new Z83
will result in disqualification. The new form can be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies. Applicants applying for SMS posts are required to successfully complete the
Certificate for entry into the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced
by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for it at a cost of R400.00. The
duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of
which will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial discloser form and
will also be required to undergo a security clearance. Candidates nominated for posts on salary
levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a competency assessment during the selection process. If the
candidate is applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date of
the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested documents will
result in your application not being considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted
on short listed candidates and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of candidates will
be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection process as set out in the Public
Service Amendment Regulations, 2023, Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing
date will not be taken into consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the advertised post may
direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above. Internal applicants must submit and
register their employment applications at the register book in the DSD reception area for the
attention of Ms P Sebatjane. DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy
that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/91 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER GRADE 1: CHILD EXPLOITATION REF NO: G1/A/2025
Directorate: Child Protection
SALARY : R970 686 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may
be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent qualification.
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a
Social Worker plus ten (10) years’ appropriate experience in social work after registration as
Social Worker with the SACSSP of which five (5) years must be appropriate experience in social
work policy development. Knowledge of child care and protection legislation, sexual offences
54
and related matters Acts and child protection policies, child exploitation, online safety, provision
of therapeutic services and psychosocial services. Willingness to travel. Competencies needed:
Programme development, Project management skills. Planning and organising skills.
Networking skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills. Professional counselling skills.
Policy analysis and development skills. Financial management skills. Presentation and
facilitation skills. Report writing. Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills.
Ability to compile complex reports. Attributes: Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Innovative and creative. Friendly and trustworthy. Integrity.
DUTIES : Develop/facilitate the development, review, amendment and implementation of legislation,
programmes on child exploitation and online safety. Manage a social work policy unit to ensure
that the required legislating policies and procedures are developed through the efficient and
effective utilization of human resources. Consult and liaise with stakeholders, including Cabinet,
Parliament and Clusters. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work and
management fields. Plan and ensure that child exploitation and online safety programme, policy
research and development are undertaken. Perform and/or ensure that all the administrative
functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Neliswa Cekiso Tel No: (012) 312-7989/7609
POST 18/92 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER-MR 6 REF NO: G1/B/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria, HSRC Building
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree PLUS at least eight (8) years appropriate post qualification legal experience.
Knowledge of and ability to manage litigations, draft legal documents and advise juniors on
motivating the cases. Ability to draft legislation and subordinate legislation. Knowledge and
ability to draft and vet contracts. Ability to interview and advise clients regarding legislative
matters. Mentorship and supervisory experience. Competencies needed: Client orientation and
customer focus skills. Quality and Cost efficient. Culturally diverse. Research skills. Report
writing skills. People management skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Communication (written,
verbal and presentation) skills. Facilitation skills. Computer literacy. Attributes: Ability to work
under pressure. Ability to work independently and as part of a team. Adaptability. Confident.
Compliant. Self-starter. Accurate. Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Provide legal advice and prepare legal documents for the Minister and the Department. Provide
legal advice to the provinces. Liaise with the state attorney regarding court cases and draft
documents in that regard. Draft, vet and review contracts and agreements. Drafting and vetting
of legislation including subordinate legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Luyanda Motshotshisa Tel No: (012) 312-7214
POST 18/93 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER GRADE 1 REF NO: G1/C/2025
Directorate: Adoptions and International Services
SALARY : R453 201.per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent qualification.
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a
Social Worker plus eight (8) years’ appropriate experience in social work after registration as
Social Worker with the SACSSP. Knowledge of the relevant Public Service legislation.
Knowledge of child care and protection legislative framework and policies. Competencies
needed: Project management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Networking skills.
Coordination skills. Communication (verbal and written) skills. Professional counselling skills.
Policy Analysis and development skills. Financial Management skills. Presentation skills.
Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to compile complex reports.
Attributes: Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Compliant. Assertive.
DUTIES : Assist in developing, implementing, and maintaining social work policies and guidelines
pertaining to adoptions. Coordinate intercountry adoptions and respond to intercountry adoption
enquiries received from foreign countries and nationally. Evaluate every intercountry adoption
and issue Certificate of Conformity. Verify adoption orders issued in foreign countries by liaising
with foreign countries that granted the adoption and issue declaration letters. Ensure the
facilitation of family/related intercountry adoption. Accredit the adoption service providers by
coordinating with the provinces on the preliminary assessment of the applications for
accreditation, accrediting the child protection organisations and social workers in private
practice, monitoring, and evaluation of Adoption Service Providers. Manage the implementation
of working agreements on intercountry adoptions by providing support and guidance to child
protection organisations rendering intercountry adoption services and receiving and reading of
post adoption reports received from foreign countries. Keep up to date with new developments
in the social work field pertaining to adoptions. Perform administrative functions required in the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Tebogo Mabe Tel No: (012) 312-7144/3
55
POST 18/94 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER GRADE 3 REF NO: G1/D/2025 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R324 579 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree PLUS at least two (2) years appropriate post qualification legal experience.
Knowledge of Public Service Legislative Framework. Knowledge of litigation processes and
drafting of contracts, Constitutional law, law of evidence, civil procedure, criminal law and
interpretation of statutes, legislative drafting and legislative drafting processes. Competencies
needed: Public relation skills. Interpersonal skills. Legal research Skills. Computer literacy.
Communication skills (written, verbal and liaison). Client orientation and customer focus skills.
Diplomacy skills. Analytical skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills. Problem solving skills.
Project management skills. Planning and organising skills. Presentation skills. Attributes: Ability
to work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Ability to cope with a high
workload. Disciplined. Assertiveness. Innovative and creative. Diplomacy.
DUTIES : Draft, vet and amend contracts and international agreements. Assist in providing legal advice
to the Department. Assist in liaison with the State Attorney regarding court cases and litigation
in general and draft documents in that regard. Assist with the drafting, vetting and reviewing of
contracts and agreements. Assist with the drafting of legislation including subordinate
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Azwifarwi Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 312 7404
56
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using one of the following methods: Email quoting the reference
number and post title in the subject line to recruitment2024@dsac.gov.za. There will be no
follow-up emails to this address. Hand delivery: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria Central. Send by
mail: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and Development, Private Bag X897,
Pretoria, 0001. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applications
received after the closing date will NOT be considered or accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Each application must be submitted separately. Applications must consist of: A recently
updated, comprehensive CV, a fully completed, initialled and signed new Z83 form (Sections A,
B, C&D are compulsory and must be completed in full, and sections E, F and G are not
compulsory if the information is contained in the CV). However, the question related to
conditions that prevent reappointment under Part F must be answered. Use of the old Z83 Form
or not completing compulsory sections of the application form will result in a disqualification.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies of ID, Driver’s licence (where
required) and qualifications on or before the interview. Should you be in possession of any
foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA); Applicants must be South African citizens. Shortlisted
candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel interview at a date and time
determined by DSAC. The applicant should make own arrangement for access to internet
connectivity and equipment for this purpose. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks
and references will be conducted once they are shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to
a positive outcome on these checks, including security clearance, security vetting,
qualification/study verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, previous
employment verification and criminal record. If an applicant wishes to withdraw an application,
it must be done in writing. We encourage all applicants to declare any criminal and/or negative
credit records. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract
and sign an annual performance agreement. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by
the Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity targets. It is
the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
these posts. Should the Department not be able to recruit candidates from disadvantaged
groups, other groups will be considered for appointment. The Department reserves the right not
to make an appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this advert
by notice on its communication channels. If you have not been contacted within three months
of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
We thank all applicants for their interest.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/95 : ENGINEER (PRODUCTION GRADE A) REF NO: DSAC-09/05/2025
SALARY : R879 342 - R938 061 per annum, (total package) as outlined in terms of the Occupation-specific
Dispensation for Engineering professions and related occupations)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/ Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; B Eng/ BSC
(Eng) or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA; Three years post qualification
engineering experience; Valid driver’s licence; Compulsory registration as a Professional
Engineer with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA); Knowledge of the Sport, Arts
and Culture Infrastructure environment in South Africa would be an additional advantage; A
multi-skilled, dynamic, self-motivated professional; Excellent organizational and writing skills;
Strong negotiation and interpersonal skills; The ability to interact at a high technical level;
Willingness to travel; Computer Literacy and MS Projects; Knowledge of local government
infrastructure development programmes and policies; Knowledge of the following:
Programme/project management; Research planning procedures; Engineering design and
analysis; knowledge of Contract documentation and administration, act/regulations of
Occupation Health & Safety (OHS-Act), National Building Regulations and Norms and
Standards, Research and development; High performance culture; Engineering and
professional judgment; Financial management; Formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary
professional environment; Strategic capability and leadership; Problem solving and analysis;
Decision making; Team leadership; Creativity; Communication (verbal and written); People
Management; Planning and organizing; Conflict Management; Negotiation skill; Ability to work
under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects; Guide the project planning, implementation,
monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project management methodology; Create and
57
execute project work plans and revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and
requirements; Identify resources needed and assign individual responsibilities; Manage day-to-
day operational aspects of a project and scope and Effectively apply methodology and enforce
project standards to minimize risk on projects; Report project progress to the Infrastructure
Director; Manage and monitor project budget and resources; Provide inputs to other
professionals with tender administration; Maintain the record management system; Keep up
with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature on new developments on project
management methodologies and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Petela Tel No: (012) 441 3478
POST 18/96 : SENIOR SPORT AND RECREATION COORDINATOR: SPORT SUPPORT AND
FEDERATION COORDINATION REF NO: DSAC-10/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; A minimum
of Three-year Degree/National Diploma (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in in Sport
Management/ Sport Science/Sport Administration or relevant qualification; 2 to 3 years relevant
experience in sport and recreation environment at a Senior/Officer level; Valid driver’s license;
willingness to travel. Competencies: Good Communication and interpersonal relations;
Knowledge of relevant prescripts, Acts and Regulations that govern sport; Understanding of
National and Provincial sport body structures and operations; Knowledge and understanding of
sport federations; Knowledge and understanding of departmental policies and procedures;
Planning and organizing skills; Computer literacy; Coaching and mentoring skills; Administrative
skills; Project and event management skills; Team player; Ability to learn, benchmark and
research; Willingness to provide customer service.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to coordinate the funding (transfers) to Sport and Recreation Bodies
and Monitoring and Evaluation of the funds transferred; To provide logistical and administrative
support to sport and recreation bodies programmes as identified by the department; Monitor
and evaluate Sport and Recreation Bodies programmes-Develop a monitoring and evaluation
processes and documentation for effective monitoring and evaluation of Sport and Recreation
Bodies; Develop a monitoring and evaluation schedule for allocated/assigned Sport and
Recreation Bodies; Monitor and evaluate the implementation of Sport and Recreation Bodies
programmes; Provide monitoring and evaluation reports; Communicate the monitoring and
evaluation process to Sport and Recreation Bodies prior to implementation; Coordinate the
provision of financial support to be provided to Sport and Recreation Bodies-Develop, review
and update documents used for the provision of financial support to Sport and Recreation
Bodies; Communicate the process of applications for financial support by Sport and Recreation
Bodies; Review all applications for financial support and advise managers on compliance of
applications against policies; Communicate all adjudication findings and requirements with
Sport and Recreation Bodies; Provide liaison services (support/link) between Department and
Sport and Recreation Bodies-Administration and records management of all documentation that
relates to allocated Sport and Recreation Bodies; Serve as point of contact between Department
and Sport and Recreation Bodies; Provide weekly and monthly updates on Sport and
Recreation programmes; Coordinate the provision of non-financial support to be provided to
Sport and Recreation Bodies-Collate all non-financial needs as required/requested by Sport and
Recreation Bodies; Procure required goods and services; Provide project coordination services
to ensure successful deliver of procured goods and services; Submit close out reports of all
programmes; Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mfundo Mncina Tel No: (012) 441 3140
POST 18/97 : SENIOR SPORT AND RECREATION COORDINATOR: COMMUNITY SPORT
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSAC-11/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; A minimum
of Three-year Degree/National Diploma (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA Sport and
Recreation Management, Sport Science, Sport Development, Sport Administration or relevant
qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at a Sport and Recreation Coordinator/Sport
Promotion Officer level in the sports sector; Valid driver’s license; willingness to travel.
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of relevant prescripts/legislation; Understanding
of the sport landscape; Thorough knowledge of the South African sporting environment;
Planning and organising skills; Good communication and interpersonal relations; Project
Management skills; Computer Skills; Problem solving skills; Analytical and thinking skills;
Solution Orientated; Results driven; Effective report writing.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to contribute towards increasing number of people participating in
Sport and Recreation programs; Facilitate the development of a framework to increase the
number of participants in community sport and recreation activities-Inform stakeholders about
the legislation within sport and recreation sector; Coordinate and assist in the Development of
the framework to increase the number of participants from specific target groups in sport and
58
recreation activities; Assist in Monitoring and evaluation the increase in number of participants
from specific target groups in sport and recreation activities; Assist in the implementation of
interventions to increase the number of participants from specific target groups in sport and
recreation activities; Analyse provincial business plans against the grant framework-Receive
and acknowledge business plans from the provinces; Analyse provincial business plans; Identify
areas from business plans to be strengthened/ improved by provinces; Provide feedback to
provinces related to performance and financial information; Arrange meetings with the provinces
to discuss the findings of the business plans; Receive final approved business plan from
provinces; File business plan; Assist with the development of policies and delivery mechanisms
to increase the number of participants-Assist Develop policies/delivery mechanisms to increase
the number of participants; Consult with relevant; Consolidate the inputs and recommendations
and delivery mechanisms; Present a draft policy and delivery mechanisms to internal and
external stakeholders for inputs; Consolidate inputs received; Present a final input; Ensure
implementation and maintenance of delivery mechanisms and policies; Review the
effectiveness of current delivery mechanisms and policies; Develop monitoring schedule and
implement measures of monitoring-Develop a monitoring schedule; Send monitoring schedule
to provinces for completions; Receive monitoring schedule from provinces; Conduct desktop
and physical monitoring of performance information against pre-determined targets; Receive
consolidated reports of provincial activities and or site visit reports; Monitor provincial
performance against business plan targets; Meet with provincial coordinators to discuss
progress on implementation of targets; Liaise with stakeholders relevant to community sport
and recreation activities-Convene stakeholders to plan for implementation of projects; Arrange
and attend meetings with stakeholders; Liaise with stakeholders within community sport on
implementation of programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Bethuel Maake Tel No: (012) 441 3060
59
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of positions with a
candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan. Whites, Coloured, Indians, youth and Persons with Disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of Traditional
Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509 Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd
Floor Pencardia 1 Building or e-mail @ DTARecruit202506@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms L Motlhala
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance process and the
verification of educational qualification certificates. Applications must quote the relevant
reference number and must be completed on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service department and signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application
be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application will not be
considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant documents. Applicants should
submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies a day
before the interview date. Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Incomplete
applications or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. It is important
to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill the advertised
position.
OTHE POST
POST 18/98 : FOOD AID SERVICES REF NO: 2025/06 (X1 POST)
Facilities Management Directorate
(12-Months contract)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 9/10 or NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent). No working experience
required.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Clean kitchen utensils and
equipment. Provide catering support services. Keep stock of kitchen utensils and equipment.
Apply hygiene and safety measures. Maintain quality control measures of all food provided.
Removal of garbage disposal. Prepare food, snacks and beverages (water, tea, coffee milk,
sugar and cold drinks). Setup and convey crockery, cutlery and equipment to dining areas.
Serve food and beverages. Responsible for food supplies and report waste and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Khalishwayo Tel No: (012) 334 5607
60
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form. “Applicants are advised that until 31
December 2020 the current application for employment (Z83) form will be applicable, however
from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83) form will be effective. Should an
individual wish to apply for a post on or after 1 January 2021, he/she will be required to submit
the new application for employment form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect
application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.” The fully completed and signed
form Z83 should be accompanied by a recently updated, comprehensive CV and application
must submit copies of qualifications, identity document and drivers licence (where appropriate)
and any other relevant documents. Such copies need to be certified when applying for a post.
The communication from the HR of the department regarding the requirements for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a
post will be required to submit certified documents on or the day of the interview following
communication from HR.as well as recently certified copies of all qualification(s), including a
Senior certificate and ID-document [Driver’s license where applicable]. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
qualification verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months. The Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
above post. The successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement. The
Department of Health is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representatively
in line with the numerical targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/99 : HEAD OF CLINICAL UNIT MEDICAL (ANAESTHESIOLOGY) REF NO: HP/01/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 084 754 – R2 212 680 per annum
Grade 2: R2 279 559 - R2 492 571 per annum
(optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Dihlabeng Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist.
A minimum of 3 years' appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after Registration with
HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025/2026). Valid driver's license. Knowledge And Skills: Provide evidence of leadership
qualities and experience. Provide evidence of Teaching and Learning and examining
(Undergraduate and Postgraduate level). Research experience e.g. publications, post-
graduate supervision, National/Local Research organizations, MMed (or equivalent
qualifications) or a PhD. Evidence of good professional standing e.g. membership of
professional organizations (other than HPCSA). Membership of relevant managerial
committees, e.g. CMSA, National Associations/ Committees, etc.
DUTIES : Provision of strategic leadership and creation of a social compact for better health outcomes.
Manage the financial affairs for sustainable health service delivery. Human resource
management to build a strategic and dedicated workforce to address the necessary service
demands, teaching and training. Develop, operate and manage infrastructure for compliance
and better health outcomes. Strengthen information and knowledge management systems to
optimize performance and research capability. Optimise and support implementation of key
priority programmes. Create access to quality services. Manage and supervise outreach, in-
reach and support services in Free State Province. Rendering compulsory commuted overtime.
Manage and supervise the teaching and training of medical officers and interns.
ENQUIRIES : Dr WJ Selfridge Tel No: (058) 306 8092
APPLICATIONS : To: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
61
POST 18/100 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR- QUALITY ASSURANCE-PNA5 REF NO: HP/02/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R619 821 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Basic qualification accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice 425 (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as a Professional. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General. Current registration with SANC
(2025/2026). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the legal framework appropriate for nursing
practice. Good Communication Skills and interpersonal relationship, Knowledge of Quality
Assurance and Patient Safety and. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide direction and oversight of the facility to meet ideal Health Facility compliance
requirements (Baseline Assessment). Provide direction and oversight of the Facility to
implement Norms and Standards by the Office of Health Standard and Compliance to acquire
or sustain accreditation. Provide secretariat support for effective functioning of the Clinical
Governance Committee, Patient Safety & Complaints Management Committee, the Risk
Management Sub-Committee, Performance Monitoring & Evaluation Committee to monitor
operational efficiency against performance targets. Develop the Training Plan for Quality
Management and monitor implementation of Quality Improvement Plans across the facility.
Management of all resources within the sphere of control in line with applicable SCM and PFMA
provisions. Support the office of the Nursing Services Manager, Head of Clinical Departments
and Chief Executive Officer by generating reports on Quality Management and Performance
against Annual Performance Objectives/targets. Represent the Facility at the District Health
Management Forum meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JM Radebe Tel No: (051) 405 3415
APPLICATIONS : To: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
62
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the above position, please apply online at http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za
or Hand Deliver: Ground floor 56 Eloff Street, Umnotho House, Johannesburg and NB: For
assistance with online applications, visit the following centres: 78 Fox Street, Marshalltown or
Maponya Mall at Thuso House next to Home Affairs. It is the Department intention to promote
equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan
(Coloreds and Indians are encouraged apply).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694 – Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025, 16h00. No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the NEW Z.83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents.
Applications with the OLD Z.83 form will not be considered. A NEW Z.83 form must be fully
completed, duly signed and initialled by the applicant. A recent, comprehensive CV, specifying
all qualifications and experience, with respective dates must accompany the application form.
Applications are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application. Communication regarding certified documents will be limited only to the
shortlisted candidates. Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) is required before the appointment can be made. Enrolment for the course should be
made on the NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and technical exercise, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification. To facilitate this process
successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is required. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). General information. The Department will not
accept posted and emailed applications. The Gauteng Department of Agriculture, Rural
Development and Environment reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised posts. If you do
not receive any response from us within 3 months, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/101 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: REFS/022709
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured according to the
individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in the field
of Financial Management. CA qualification will be an added advantage. 5 years proven
experience in a senior managerial position. Successful completion of the Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is required before the appointment can be made. Enrolment
for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Must be in possession of a valid Code 08 driver’s license.
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership skills, People Management, Empowerment
and Integrity, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme and project
Management. Technical Competencies: Advanced financial and analytical skills and
innovativeness. Adequate financial management and extensive knowledge of Supply Chain
Management in the Public Service. Strong managerial and communication skills (written and
verbal). Thorough knowledge of the Financial Prescripts of the Public Service and Supply Chain
Management. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines. Ability to work in a team and independently. Strong Management skills. Problem
Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
DUTIES : Ensure effective compilation of accurate financial statements. Manage revenue efficiently and
effectively by developing and implementing appropriate processes. Ensure that internal
procedures and control measures are in place. Compile an accurate departmental annual
budget, MTEF budget, and maintaining effective standard chart of accounts for the department.
Provide value adding report to management and external stakeholders timeously. Monitor the
operation of accounting systems, controls and procedures to ensure the integrity of financial
information and administration. Monitor the provision of financial reporting processes and
provide recommendations and advise to address significant variances. Ensure proper financial
reporting requirements as required in terms of financial management legislation such as PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, DoRA, etc. Provide and oversee the overall management and monitoring
63
regarding supply chain compliance. Manage the provisioning of asset management services.
Manage the provisioning of logistical and transport services. Manage and facilitate the demand,
acquisition and contract management. Manage and conduct compliance Audit. Coordinate and
facilitate forensic investigation. Facilitate the conducting of performance Audits. Provide support
service to the internal Audit committee. Follow up on the Audits queries. Research and keep
abreast of practice initiatives and developments within the directorate. Develop business/
strategic plan for the directorate and align it with the Chief Directorate and ensure
implementation thereof. Oversee the development and implementation of operational plans for
the Chief Directorate. Manage the development and coordination of service delivery
improvement plan. Oversee and ensure provision of coaching, disciplining and mentoring of
staff to improve performance. Manage the performance of staff and ensure assessment of their
performance. Consolidate and manage of budget in the Chief Directorate. Authorise, control
and monitor the budget and expenditure. Manage the compilation of various reports and
statistics. Manage leave in the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo; at 072 904 1694
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be hand delivered or posted to the relevant district offices and Head office
where the post is advertised OR apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/. Please see the
address below:
Head Office (HO) Physical address: 26th Loveday Street, Kuyasa Building, Johannesburg,
2001. Postal address: P.O. Box 7710, Johannesburg, 2000.
District Gauteng West (GW): Physical Address: Corner Boshoff & Human Street, Krugersdorp
Postal Address: Private Bag X2020, Krugersdorp 1740 Enquiries: Ms Louisa Dhlamini TEL:
(011) 660-4581,
District Ekurhuleni South (ES): Physical Address: Infinity Office Park, 2 Robin Close,
Meyersdal Private Bag X8001, Alberton, 1456 Enquiries: Mr. Sipho Zonele Tel No: (011) 389
6062
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : It is our intention to promote representatively (Race, Gender and Disability) in the Public Service
through the filling of these posts. Applications must be submitted on form Z83, obtainable from
any public service department or on internet at www.dpsa.gov.za /documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each application for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on the
first page by the applicant. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign this form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. A fully completed, initialed, and
signed new form Z83 (Section A, B, C and D compulsory and (Section E, F and G ignore if CV
attached). A Z83 form and a detailed CV MUST be attached on hand delivered, posted and
online applications. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on the application but must submit the Z83 with a detailed Curriculum Vitae.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (positive
Identity, qualification, fraud listing, employment reference, and criminal record verification as
well as the required level of security clearance process). Where applicable, candidate will be
subjected to a skills/ knowledge or computer assessment test. Please note that all applicants
for Senior Management positions are required to complete the SMS Pre- Entry Programme
administered by the National School of Government (NSG) and SMS pre-entry certificate is
submitted prior to appointment. The Course is available at NSG under the name Certificate for
entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information
regarding the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job. Following the interview process, recommended candidate (s) to attend to generic SMS
competency assessment as mandated by DPSA. The logistics of which will be communicated
by the Department. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a security clearance.
Department reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Women
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the
underrepresented groups as per the GDE Employment Equity Targets. Applications received
after the closing date will not be considered. The specific reference number of the post must be
quoted. Due to the large number of applications we envisage to receive, applications will not
be acknowledged. If you do not receive any response within 3 months, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. No faxed, emailed and late applications will be considered.
ERRATUM: Please note that the post of Legal Admin Officer (MR5) with Ref No: REFS/022623
which was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 17 dated 23 May 2025, in the Legal
Services Directorate, Centre: Head Office, Johannesburg. The salary should have been
advertised as R464 634 - R1 111 323 per annum (salary to be determined in accordance with
experience as per OSD determination).
64
MANAGEMENT ECHOLON
POST 18/102 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: EDUCATION SUPPORT REF NO: REFS/022694
Branch: Education Support
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA plus a minimum of 8 years’ experience
at a Senior Managerial level within an education environment. Proven management skills in
education management or similar. Extensive working knowledge of public sector, particular in
education sphere, Education prescripts, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service
Regulation. Competencies: Strategic Planning, Computer literacy, Communication Skills,
Change Management, Negotiation skills, Report writing skills, Project Management, Good
Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving, Leadership, Facilitation and Consultation,
Presentation skills, Financial Management skills, Policy development and Research skills,
Innovation and creativity. Valid South African drivers’ license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and oversee the management and coordination of GDE
infrastructure facilities and school infrastructure delivery, scholar transport, nutrition, security &
safe school support services. Oversee, manage, and ensure implementation of GDE corporate
infrastructure facilities and school infrastructure delivery, national school nutrition, scholar
transport and safe school services. Provide strategic leadership and oversee the provision of
social support services to institutions and stakeholder services. Oversee, manage, and ensure
the improvement of institutions performance. Oversee, manage, and promote learner psycho-
social support services, school sport and extra-curricular programmes. Provide strategic
leadership and manage infrastructure and operation support services. Oversee, manage, and
ensure the implementation of infrastructure planning services, day-to-day routine, and
preventative maintenance projects. Promote internal and external stakeholder relationships.
Represent the department in all relevant committees and forums. Build and maintain internal
and external networks with Branch Heads, Senior Managers, and service providers to ensure
relevance and credibility of the Branch services. Manage and maintain effective stakeholder
engagement. Manage resources of the Branch. Ensure the development and implementation
of procurement and operational plan for the Branch. Monitor and ensure control of budget &
expenditure of the branch in line with the relevant legislation. Oversee the identification of risks
within the Branch and implementation of mitigation thereof. Develop monitoring & evaluation
mechanisms for the implementation of Policies and procedures in the department and ensure
the maintenance thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Hector Tsosane Tel No: (011) 843 6533
POST 18/103 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT OPERATION MANAGEMENT (EKURHULENI REGION) REF
NO: REFS/022699
Branch: Curriculum Management & Delivery
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advanced Diploma/B-Tech /Degree (NQF Level 7) qualification in Education/
Public Management/Public Administration or related equivalent qualification at NQF Level 7 with
at least a minimum of 5 years senior management experience. Proven management skills in
education management or equivalent. Knowledge of advance analytical skills and extensive
knowledge of the prescripts of the Public Service, Education Policies and strategies.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Programme and Project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, Service Delivery Innovation, People
Management and Empowerment Client Orientation and Customer focus Communication,
Computer literate and ability to work under pressure. Valid South African driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : To oversee the management of district planning and resourcing. Facilitate the development of
a consolidated operational plan for the Chief Directorate, district operations management that
is aligned to the business objectives, goals and approved budget. Ensure the filling of vacant
posts to achieve the departmental mandate. Oversee programmes within the District Offices to
ascertain implementation and expenditure of the budget allocations. Monitor the implementation
and propose the review of the districts organisational structure to address service delivery
requirements. Coordinate and oversee HR and Financial administration support services to the
district and circuit teams. Support, monitor and manage District operations. Consolidate District
Reports for the Region as and when required. Manage, monitor and support district
performance. Develop, implement and maintain a framework/programme against which the
district performance can be evaluated and monitored. Manage and coordinate the provision of
district governance services. Manage the development and review of district operations
management policies and guidelines. Ensure that information risk management, security and
support protocols are implemented and adhered to. Support, Manage and Monitor School
governance and training of professional staff, Registration and de – registration of schools and
65
Determination of school norms and standards. Ensure standards of performance in districts
under the region. Lead programmes and interventions to improve the quality of learning.
Promote internal and external stakeholder relationships. Ensure that policy, systems and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Hector Tsosane Tel No: (011) 843 6533
POST 18/104 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022700
Branch: Strategic Planning and Systems
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree, Advanced Diploma or B-Tech (NQF7) in Public
Management, Public Administration/ Education/ Research/ Economics with at least a minimum
of 5 years senior management experience in planning, policy or education information and any
other appropriate experience. Superior understanding of Education Planning. Extensive
knowledge of education legislation, public sector, PFMA and Treasury Regulations; Public
Service Regulatory Framework, Risk Management Framework and Practices. Revised
Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans and National Evaluation Policy
Framework. Valid South African driver’s license is essential. Competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership. Ability to work under pressure. Strong quantitative and analytical skills and
ability to articulate technical information clearly and effectively to both technical and non-
technical audiences. Thorough awareness of current issues and a working knowledge of
legislation relevant to the team’s work. Demonstrable understanding of contemporary practice
of education planning in south Africa. Demonstrated expertise in rigorous quantitative and
qualitative research and analytical methods Previous publishing record will be an asset.
Excellent report writing, analytical, and communication skills, including oral presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of integrated planning and education management information systems
(EMIS). Manage EMIS and data collection initiatives in support of departmental strategy,
planning and accountability processes. Provide technical and strategic leadership on data
quality assurance strategies and monitor the systems in place to generate high quality data.
Manage the development and alignment of education plans, policies, and budgets. Manage the
development and implementation of the educational development plan. Manage the
development of departmental strategic plan, annual plan, operational planning, and other
related documents and/instrument. Provide guidance on development and maintenance of the
departmental planning agenda. Providing strategic direction and leadership in the management
and coordination of performance information related to service delivery in the province.
Facilitate processes to analyse performance reports and identify relevant education service
delivery barriers. Oversee the promotion and strengthening of partnership support on the
strategic priorities of the department. Manage and coordinate partnerships programmes
departmentally with the office of the premier as well as international partners. Oversee the
development of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the department and partners.
Provide transparent, accountable, and coherent governance for the whole of GDE between the
stakeholders. Manage the policy alignment, development, and implementation. Manage the
coordination of National and Provincial Parliamentary questions, compilation and submission of
responses to parliamentary questions to DBE/Gauteng legislature.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Hector Tsosane Tel No: (011) 843 6533
POST 18/105 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022702
Branch: Office of the HOD
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advanced Diploma/B-Tech /Degree (NQF Level 7) qualification in
Accounting/Auditing and Risk Management. At least 5 years’ experience at a Senior
Management level in a Risk /Audit/ Financial Management and any other appropriate
experience. A post-graduate qualification and registration with relevant professional bodies will
be an added advantage. Extensive Knowledge of public sector, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations; PSRF (Public Service Regulatory Framework), Risk Management Framework and
Practices, General Recognised Accounting Principles; GAAP; Risk and Financial Analysis;
financial management and provisioning administration. Sound working knowledge of the
legislative requirements relating to ERM. Competencies: Superior understanding of Integrated
Risk Management principles and practices such as Corporate Governance (King IV), Code of
Ethics and their incorporation into various business processes. Good communications skills
(verbal and written), Interpersonal management, presentation skills, problem-solving, strong
analytical, strategic ability, and conflict management skills. Valid South African driver’s license
is essential.
DUTIES : To ensure the development and the implementation of an Annual Risk Assessment Plan for the
Department. Analyse Auditor General Reports and the risk management profiles of the Gauteng
Department of Education (GDE) and institutions with a view to develop the Annual Assurance
66
Assessment Plan. Review accounting and management processes and systems to identify high
risk areas. Monitor and evaluate the impact made with the implementation of recommended
corrective actions following risk assessment profiling exercises. Identify transversal
development needs regarding risk management practices for the GDE and make
recommendations to address such developmental needs. Ensure the development and revision
of the Departmental Risk Management and internal control strategies, frameworks,
methodologies, policies, reporting, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. Ensure common
understanding on the transversal Departmental risk management matters as per the provincial
and national risk management framework with relevant stakeholders. Develop and revise the
risk management strategies and frameworks in line with the provincial and national risk
management framework. Ensure the development of new methodologies, policies, procedures
manual and best practices relating to risk management and internal controls. Ensure approval
of the risk management strategies, framework, policies, methodologies, etc. Ensure the
development of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. Facilitate processes to conduct
forensic audits in high-risk areas and components where fraudulent activities are suspected.
Ability to design and implement internal systems, policies and controls to ensure sound
management. Provide risk anti-corruption and integrity management services. Based on the
findings of audit processes identify areas requiring forensic auditing and develop a Forensic
Audit Plan. Perform benchmarks on risk mitigation strategies and provide advice on
improvement. Ensure the effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Hector Tsosane Tel No: (011) 843 6533
POST 18/106 : DIRECTOR: IT SERVICE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022704
Chief Directorate: Corporate Information Technology and Management
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in Information Technology/ Information
System/Computer Science /Systems or related equivalent qualification at NQF Level 7 with at
least a minimum of 5 years’ middle/ senior management experience within IT Environment. ITIL
Certification will be an added advantage. Experience in management of IT Service Level and
Operational Level Agreements (SLA’s and OLA’s), IT Service Management environment, IT
service desk, desktop support management, IT Governance, IT Security and IT Disaster
Recovery. Ability to manage the service delivery of ICT services and supervise IT service
operations teams. Knowledge of COBIT, ITIL, MISS, MIOS, ISO17799, GWEA framework.
Knowledge of the Treasury Regulations, relevant legislations like Public Finance Management
Act, ECT Act, etc. Knowledge of Configuration Management, departmental systems (BAS,
Persal, SAP etc.), Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL- industry standard for IT
Help desk), IT Risk Management practices, IT network hardware and software and knowledge
of current technology developments and future trends. COMPETENCIES: Good communication
(verbal and writing) skills, good inter-personal relations, analysis, conceptualizing and problem
solving. Good understanding of Financial Management, change management, project and
strategic Management, conflict management, policy analysis and development, facilitation,
presentation, report writing, planning and organising skills. Valid South African driver’s license
is essential.
DUTIES : Oversee the development, implementation of the Information Security Policy and Disaster
Recovery Strategy to manage the IT security vulnerabilities, as well as aligning the backup and
restore implementation for both the server infrastructure and end user tools of trade to ultimately
preserve the proprietary information and intellectual property of the Department. Manage the
desktop support and service desk provisioning throughout the Department, including all the
districts. Manage the availability and functionality of service-desk and related management tools
in the Department. Manage the Service Level Agreement (SLA) and contracts of suppliers of
information management and Information Technology goods and services, including
management of licensing for intangible assets. Oversee the management of the delivery service
through the implementing agents, eGov/SITA. Manage and monitor the capacity and availability
of all hardware resources, including printers and tools of trade through its entire lifecycle within
GDE. Oversee the development of ICT policies, processes, procedures and monitor the
implementation thereof to ensure compliance with relevant regulatory frameworks and
standards. Manage the operational efficiency and improvement of IT Governance in the
Department. Oversee the management of audit improvement implementation in the IT
environment including management of IT Risk register to ensure that risks are mitigated for.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Winny Radzilani Tel. No: (011) 843 6540
POST 18/107 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR: JOHANNESBURG EAST REF NO: REFS/022706
Chief Directorate: District Operations Management (Johannesburg Region)
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg East District
67
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advanced Diploma/B-Tech /Degree (NQF Level 7) qualification in Education/
Public Management/Public Administration or related equivalent qualification at NQF Level 7 with
at least a minimum of 5 years middle/ senior management experience. Proven management
skills in education management or equivalent. Knowledge of advance analytical skills and
extensive knowledge of the prescripts of the Public Service, Education Policies and strategies.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Programme and Project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, Service Delivery Innovation, People
Management and Empowerment Client Orientation and Customer focus Communication,
Computer literate. South African driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of support to institutions: Ensure proper coordination for all support and
activities to and with institutions. Manage the support provided to circuit teams e.g. education
support, learning implementation. Facilitate the HR and Corporate support to district office and
circuit teams. Ensure the maintenance of teaching and learning activities in schools within the
district. Manage the strategic support direction and planning in the districts: Formulate strategies
for efficient support to circuits and institutions. Ensure the implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of departmental policies and strategies. Implement corrective intervention plans for
districts to ensure effective learning take place in institutions. Manage all resources of the
District Office: Supervise and manage sub-ordinates and other participants in the Branch
activities. Responsible for the financial management of the component’s activities. Plan,
organise and control activities pertaining to functions of the districts. Adhere to and promote
statutory prescripts and the Code of Conduct for the Public Service. Ensure compliance with
National policy frameworks and standards. Lead programmes and interventions to improve the
quality of learning. Report to and participate in all appropriate provincial, departmental and other
structures and processes. Compile and take full responsibility for regular reports forwarded to
the Chief Directorate: District Operations Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Winny Radzilani Tel No: (011) 843 6540
POST 18/108 : DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICE & SAFE SCHOOL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/022701
Chief Directorate: School Support
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract Performance Based)
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advanced Diploma/ B-Tech/Degree (NQF7) in Occupational Health and Safety
Management/ Security Risk Management/ Disaster Management/ Environmental Management
or related equivalent qualification with at least a minimum of 5 years middle/ senior management
experience in Safety and Security Management environment. Knowledge of Minimum
Information Security Standards and its interpretation. Project Management and understanding
of Security Standards and its interpretation in the Public Service. Protection of Children Act,
OHS Act. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
People Management and Empowerment Client Orientation and Customer focus
Communication, Computer literate. South African driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : To manage security services of the Department. Develop and implement security policies based
on Minimum Information Security Standards and Minimum Physical Security Standards. Plan,
develop and Implement security plans, Security programs such as Emergency Response and
Crisis Management. Physical Security Information Protection, Incident management and / or
investigation. Manage the development and implementation of vetting and security screening,
policies guidelines and procedures. Develop guidelines for managing access control to the
Department. Manage information security. Oversee the development of Occupational Health
and Safety measures and compliance protocols by schools. Oversee and implement of security
and safety awareness and challenges at schools within the responsible district. Oversee the
development and implementation of the approved Security and Safe School Management
policies, procedures and guidelines. Manage the compilation and dissemination of departmental
School Occupational Health and Safety norms and standards Safety Health Environment
(SHE); School Occupational Health and Safety norms and standards Hazard Identification and
Risk Assessment (HIRA).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Winny Radzilani Tel No: (011) 843 6540
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/109 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: REFS/022705
Office of the DDG: Curriculum Management and Delivery
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration/Public Management/Office Management/ Office Administration/Administrative
Management plus a minimum of 3 years’ experience in general administration at Junior
Management /Middle Management level (Assistant Director/Deputy Director level) within
68
administrative environment. Working knowledge of the relevant Acts, prescripts, regulations,
policy practice notes and procedures pertaining to Public Administration, Finance, labour
relations, human resource administration. Skills: Strong Organising, Planning, Problem solving,
Research and Analytical skills, Strong computer and information systems management, Time
management, Conflict management skills. Financial management skills, Project planning /
management skills, Good inter-personal relations, verbal and written communication skills.
Presentation and policy analysis skills. Self-disciplined and able to work under pressure with
minimum supervision. Supervisory skills. A valid South African Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Undertake policy or line function tasks as required. Execute research, analyse information and
compile complex documents for the DDG. Source information and compile memoranda as
required. Scrutinize submissions / reports; make notes and recommendations to present to the
DDG. Co-ordinate, follow-up and compile reports of a transverse nature for the DDG. Advise /
sensitize the DDG on reports to be submitted. Be able to track AG Matters, queries and
documents between office of the HOD and MEC Compile presentations for the DDG. Provide
support to the DDG. Record minutes / resolutions and communicate / disseminate to relevant
role-players, follow-up on progress made, prepare briefing notes; Co-ordinate the performance
agreements / assessments and financial disclosures with regard to SMS in the relevant DDG.
Manage Performance Management of staff and general support services in the office of the
DDG. Set up and maintain systems in the Office that will ensure efficiency in the office.
Establish, implement and maintain effective processes / procedures for information and
documents flow to and from the Office. Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the Office
and. Manage the engagements of the DDG. Manage the resources of the Office of the DDG.
Determine and collate information with regard to the budget needs of the Office. Keep record of
expenditure commitments and monitor expenditure. Monitor and evaluate the performance of
the Staff. Oversee responses drafted by the Personal Assistant on enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 18/110 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X9 POSTS)
Branch: Curriculum Management and Delivery Ref No: REFS/022692
Chief Directorate: Corporate Finance Ref No: REFS/022696
Directorate: HRTS (Cluster C) Ref No: REFS/022691
Directorate: Examination Management Ref No: REFS/022693
Directorate: Collective Bargaining Ref No: REFS/022690
Directorate: e-Learning Ref No: REFS/022695
Directorate: Recruitment and Selection Ref No: REFS/022688
Directorate: Legal Services Ref No: REFS/022698
Directorate: Monitoring and Evaluation Ref No: REFS/022733
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification plus 3-5 years’ experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support service. Knowledge of procurement policy and processes.
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
Computer literacy in packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise
Internet etc.). Good problem-solving and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Ability to organise/prioritise tasks and effectively manage time. Willingness to
occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions. Provide a secretarial/receptionist
support service to the Senior Manager. Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide
administrative support services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicate to relevant role-players.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Support the manager with the
administration of the Office Budget. Collect and coordinate all the documents that relate to the
office budget. Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to senior
manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the Senior Manager. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the Senior Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Tlaleng Ngubeni Tel. No: (011) 843 6544
POST 18/111 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
Sub directorate: Head of the District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022689
Ekurhuleni South District Ref No REFS/022697
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification plus 3-5 years’ experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support service. Knowledge of procurement policy and processes.
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
Computer literacy in packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise
Internet etc.). Good problem-solving and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
69
independently. Ability to organise/prioritise tasks and effectively manage time. Willingness to
occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions. Provide a secretarial/receptionist
support service to the Senior Manager. Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide
administrative support services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicate to relevant role-players.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Support the manager with the
administration of the Office Budget. Collect and coordinate all the documents that relate to the
office budget. Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to senior
manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the Senior Manager. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the Senior Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
Mr. Sipho Zonele Tel No: (011) 389 6062 (ES District)
DEPARTMENT OF e-GOVERNMENT
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender, and disability status is
required.
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be submitted online at: www.jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service department or
on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents) and must be completed in full, and page 2 duly
signed. A clear indication of the post and reference number that is being applied must be
indicated on your Z83. Applications should consist of a comprehensive CV (specifying all
experience and duties, indicating the respective dates MM/YY as well as indicating references
with full contact details). Applicants are not required to submit copies of certificates; only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of certificates. Failure to submit the
above information will result in the application not being considered and deemed a regret.
General information: Shortlisted candidates must be available for interviews at a date and time
determined by the Gauteng Department of e-Government. Applicants must note that pre-
employment checks and references will be conducted once they are shortlisted and the
appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include but are not
limited to security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, previous employment verification, and criminal record.
Please note that all applicants for Senior Management positions are required to complete the
SMS Pre-Entry Programme administered by the National School of Government (NSG). No
appointment will take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry certificate and
submission of proof thereof. The Course is available at NSG under the name Certificate for
entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entry-programme/. For more information
regarding the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job. Following the interview process, recommended candidate (s) to attend to generic SMS
competency assessment as mandated by DPSA. Successful candidates must obtain a positive
security clearance. Applications received after the closing date as well as those who do not
comply with the requirements will not be taken into consideration. If you have not received a
response from this institution within three months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Gauteng Department of e-Government reserves the right to fill or
not fill the above-mentioned post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY REF
NO: REFS/022719
Branch: ICT
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Information Technology at NQF level 8 as recognised by the SAQA. A master’s
degree in business administration or information technology field would be advantageous. 8
years’ experience at a senior managerial level in the ICT environment. Large scale project
management experience. Extensive experience in a volume driven processing Centre
environment will be an advantage. Nyukela pre-entry certificate into the Senior Management
Services. Driver’s license.
DUTIES : To oversee the provision of information communication technology support services within the
GPG Departments. Ensure the development and implementation of ICT programs and
applications to support the GPG departments. Ensure the provision of integrated information
support to the GPG. Ensure the implementation of ERP solutions support to the GPG. Ensure
that GPG departments use all forms of ICT to enhance operations and accelerated service
delivery. Provide technical expertise within the Department and GPG department. Ensure that
70
the information security governance and compliance is maintained within GPG. Ensure the
management of ICT infrastructure and operations. Ensure maintenance of ICT infrastructure
and operations within GPG to prevent disruption. Ensure that the GPG department’s ICT
systems are supported. Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts
in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Business unit, and
of the resources employed by it. Provide guidelines on technology standards and norms set.
Ensure guidelines on technology standards are approved, implemented, and maintained.
Ensure that the ICT infrastructure architecture is designed and implemented. Ensure the
appropriate upgrade of infrastructure architecture design. Prepare Annual and adjustment
budgets for the business unit. Ensure efficient, economic, and effective control and
management of the business unit’s budget and expenditure. Oversee control of business unit’s
budgeting and expenditure process in-line with strategic objectives and relevant legislation.
Evaluate the performance of the business unit on a continuing basis against pre-determined
key measurable objectives and standards. Oversee and ensure provision of coaching,
disciplining, and mentoring of staff to improve performance. Oversee the management,
maintenance, and safekeeping of the business unit’s assets. Manage leave in the business unit.
Attributes: Be able to work under pressure. Should be decisive. Enable Diversity awareness.
Inspire innovation within the organisation. Encourage teamwork. Should be cost conscious.
Inspire to be Quality Oriented.
ENQUIRIES : Oscar Baloyi at 066 486 5508
POST 18/113 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022716
Branch: CFO
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive remunerative package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Financial Management /Accounting Management/Supply Chain Management at
NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. Post graduate qualification would be an added advantage.
5 years of experience at a senior managerial level in the financial management field. Proven
management skills. Track record in preparation and management of strategic plans, business
plans and budgeting. Ability to implement internal systems and controls to ensure sound
financial management. Well versed in the PFMA and knowledge of all legislation, policies and
regulations pertaining to the public sector. Nyukela pre-entry certificate into Senior Management
Services. Driver’s license.
DUTIES : To oversee the management and provision of financial management within the Department.
Oversee the Financial Accounting: Ensure accurate compilation of departmental annual budget,
MTEF budget, and maintaining effective standard chart of accounts for the department. Prepare
Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the Department. Ensure efficient, economic, and effective
control and management of budget and expenditure. Prepare reports to the Head of Department
on all aspects of the departments’ finances. Ensure that full and proper records of the financial
affairs of the Department are kept in accordance with any prescribed norms and standards.
Oversee Financial Reporting. Oversee Revenue Management. Oversee management
accounting: - Oversee the establishment and implementation of sound, effective and efficient
Management Accounting systems in line with PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other regulatory
frameworks. Oversee the management of Departmental Budget and budgeting systems and
cycles in line with Departmental Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plans and Operational
Plans. Oversee the virements, rollovers and adjustments to Departmental annual budgets.
Oversee the management of cash flows and budget forecasting based on Departmental
Programmes: goals and objectives. Oversee the preparation, analysis and submission of
Departmental monthly and quarterly expenditure reports and annual Financial Statements.
Oversee the preparation and submission of Departmental Oversight Financial Reports to
Provincial Legislature, Provincial Treasury. Oversee the establishment and implementation of
sound, effective and efficient Tender, Contract, Procurement and Asset Management Systems
and processes in line with PFMA: Treasury Regulations and other regulatory frameworks.
Oversee the establishment and implementation of sound, effective and efficient Tender,
Contract, Procurement and Asset Management Systems and processes in line with PFMA:
Treasury Regulations and other regulatory frameworks. Oversee the alignment of Departmental
Tender and Contract, Procurement and Asset Management Plan to Strategic Plan. Allocate
budget on Departmental Tender and Contract, Procurement end Asset Management Plans.
Ensure management, maintenance, and safekeeping of the Department’s assets. Ensure that
the correct tender and procurement procedures are adhered to. Manage and provide internal
control services. Coordinate the implementation of audit recommendations. Provide financial
systems and support services. Establish an integrated internal control system (including
policies). Establish a delegation’s framework. Facilitate assurance services. Retain financial
information. Manage and facilitate monitoring and evaluation of departmental budget. Ensure
compliance to accounting standards, regulations, and internal control. Provide strategic
direction support the HOD and other senior managers in the execution of their functions in terms
of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and the Treasury Regulations. Advise the HOD
pertaining to matters that have strategic and financial implications. Formulate creative solutions
to enhance cost effectiveness and efficiency in the delivery of the services and the
administration of the Department. Provide additional information on activities, processes,
71
procedures, and requirements to comply with the determinations of the PFMA is set out in
Appendix B. Facilitate the implementation of national norms and standards where applicable.
Review and approve policies, standards, and guidelines for the E-GOV’s Business Continuity
Teams to follow, enterprise-wide, in the development/ enhancement of business continuity
plans. Provide direction to the Business Continuity, infrastructure, and support teams. Manage
resources (human, financial, equipment/assets). Evaluate the performance of the Business Unit
on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards.
Manage performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance. Consolidate and
manage budget of the chief directorate. Authorize, control, and monitor budget and expenditure.
Ensure leave management in the chief directorate. Build and lead a high-performing team by
ensuring provision of mentorship, coaching, and discipline of staff. Set clear goals and
performance expectations for the team, ensuring alignment with organizational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Oscar BaloyiTel No: (066 486 5508)
POST 18/114 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES REF NO: REFS/022717
Branch: Human Resource Services
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive remunerative package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Human Resource at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA. 5 years of
experience at a senior managerial level. Nyukela pre-entry certificate into Senior Management
Services. Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Oversee the provision of HR information management and policy development services to the
GPG. Ensure compilation and interpretation of Condition of Services Quarterly/ Annual statistics
and reports. Ensure the implementation and maintenance of accurate of Human Resource
Establishment. Ensure that the HR policies, standards and guidelines for the HR management
reports from PERSAL – for GPG are reviewed and approved. Oversee the safeguarding and
enforcement of Personnel records safety and confidentiality in line with Protection of Personal
Information (POPI) Act. Oversee the management of Injury on duty services. Ensure that IOD
gaps are identified, investigated and propose corrective measures. Monitor and ensure that IOD
cases and transactions are approved. Monitor and ensure that Injury on Duty (IOD) processes
are compliant with COIDA standard. Oversee the provision of human resource conditions of
service for all GPG Departments. Ensure effective and efficient transactional services on the
conditions of service to the departmental employees as follows: Appointments and Termination
of employee services, Transfer, Long Services, Severance package benefits to employees,
Housing allowance and Leave management. Manage the development of Human Resource
Administration Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Ensure continuous reporting of audit
findings relating to the correct interpretation and implementation of Incapacity Leave and Ill-
health to the Senior Managers. Oversee the provision of debt collection service within GPG.
Ensure that the debts owed to the departments are recovered. Oversee the performance of the
appointed Service Providers in terms of the recovery of the debt over the contract period. Ensure
that cases handed over to legal are monitored, and payment of all undisputed invoices within
30 (thirty) days of receipt. Ensure collection targets set by the department are met, ensure that
monthly and quarterly reports such as monthly quotas or recovery rates are reported. Oversee
the administration of the GPG wide payroll services. Manage approval and authorization of
calculated salary and related allowance and deductions due to all affected GPG employees.
Oversee payroll administration policies and procedures are in conjunction to Departmental
policies and procedures and are compliant with PFMA/Treasury Regulations. Provide
Leadership and manage resources. Build and lead a high-performing team by providing
guidance, mentorship, and professional development opportunities. Set clear goals and
performance expectations for the team, ensuring alignment with organizational objectives.
Foster a collaborative and inclusive work environment that encourages teamwork and
continuous learning. Manage all resources, including budget, in terms of the PFMA. Manage
and promote the maintenance of discipline within the Business unit. Attributes: Be able to work
under pressure. Should be decisive. Enable Diversity awareness. Inspire innovation within the
organisation. Encourage teamwork. Should be cost conscious. Inspire to be Quality Oriented.
ENQUIRIES : Oscar Baloyi at 066 486 5508
72
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND LIAISON
APPLICATIONS : With the implementation of the online recruitment system, applicants for any vacant post within
the Province of KwaZulu-Natal may apply for a post in the following ways: -via the S’thesha
Waya Waya - KZN Online recruitment portal at (https://www.eservices.gov.za) or by submitting
by post their Z83 and CV directly to the department to The Head: Community Safety and Liaison,
Human Resource Management, Private Bag, X9143, Pietermaritzburg, 3200, or hand delivered
to 179 Jabu Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Z.R Bekwa
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified qualifications, all non-SA citizens must submit a copy of proof
of permanent residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to (1) a technical
exercise; (2) integrity assessment and (3) personnel suitability checks on criminal records,
citizen verification, financial records, qualification verification and applicants could be required
to provide consent for access to their social media accounts. For SMS posts following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection committee will recommend candidates to attend
generic managerial competencies using the mandated Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) SMS competency assessment tools prior to submitting a
recommendation for appointment to the Executive Authority. Prior to appointment, a candidate
will be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services which is an online course offered by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can
be sourced from the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. The successful candidate will be required to complete such prior to appointment.
All personal data on applications will be dealt with in terms of the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013. Females, Persons with disabilities and youth are also
encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/115 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: CSL18/2025
Re-advertisement of Ref No: CSL07/2025. Applicants who previously applied for this post are
welcome to re-apply as previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package) is payable to the successful
candidate. The package includes a basic salary (70 % of package) and a flexible portion (30%
of package) that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate
will be subject to security clearance and the signing of a performance agreement within three
months of appointment.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7) or higher qualification in Financial Management/ Accounting or Financial
Accounting together with a minimum of 5 years of experience in Financial
Management/Accounting at a middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver’s license.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed
by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. A chartered Accountants
(South Africa) qualification will be an added advantage. Applicants must be prepared to work
extended hours. Knowledge of the Constitution of RSA, 1996, High degree of knowledge of the
PFMA, Treasury Regulations and associated practice notes, Knowledge of Public Service Act
and Regulations, HR systems including “PERSAL”, National Crime Prevention Strategy, 1996,
KZN Commissions Act,1999, Employment Equity Act,1998, Skills Development Act,1998,
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act,2000, Promotions of Access to Information Act,2000,
Electronic Communications & Transactions Act, 2002, State Information Technology Agency
Act,1999, Labour Relations Act,1995, Communication and protocol, Service Delivery and
Service Level Agreements, Supply Chain Management Procedures.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the provision of Financial and Supply Chain Management within the
Department. Manage the implementation and maintenance of effective Budget Control services
within the Department. Manage the implementation and maintenance of an effective financial
management and accounting system. Manage and provide supply chain and asset
management services. Manage Financial Planning and Resource Funding. Manage the
effective and efficient utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B.F N Makhanya Tel No: (033) 341 9300
73
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACs) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying for jobs on
the KZN online e-Recruitment system or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
Please note that applicants should only use one of the following methods when applying for a
post: either through the online e-Recruitment system or submit a hardcopy application as
directed. Forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to: Recruitment &
Selection Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications may alternatively be hand-delivered to the Office of the
Department of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and time will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the NEW Application for Employment Form, Z83 (obtainable
on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). The Z83 form must be completed in terms of
DPSA circular 03 of 2025. The completed and signed Z83 must be accompanied by a detailed
CV. Dates of starting and leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Kindly take
note that only shortlisted candidates will be required to provide certified copies of required
documents on or before the date of the interviews following communication from Human
Resources. Failure to comply with these instructions will lead to applications being disqualified.
Should an applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for each post applied for. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders
must provide a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits if shortlisted for an interview. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such if shortlisted for an interview.
Under no circumstances will faxed applications be accepted. Receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged due to the volume of applications, and should you not receive an invitation to
attend an interview within three (3) months of the closing date applicants should assume that
their application was unsuccessful. Please note that where experience is a requirement for the
post, the successful candidate will be required to submit documentary proof of such work
experience prior to assuming duty. A personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, qualification verification and employment verification) will be conducted
prior to employment. Prior to appointment being made to an SMS post, the appointee must have
completed the pre-entry certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific training
programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that potential
SMS members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS. The
duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours. Full details may be sourced
by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. The Department of
Transport reserves the right not to fill the advertised post(s) at any stage of the recruitment
process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/116 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOT 342/2025
Kindly take note that this a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously and who still
wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all Inclusive, flexible remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate relevant tertiary qualification in Human Resource Development, Human
Resource Management (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA; Applicants who possess the
required Postgraduate qualification must also possess a three year undergraduate in the
required qualification; plus, A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/ senior managerial
level in Human Resource Development environment; plus, Possession of a valid driver’s licence
(minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Republic of
South Africa Constitution. Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Labour Relations
Act. Knowledge Performance Management Framework. Knowledge of Employee Performance
74
and Management System. Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of
Project Management principles. Knowledge of social dynamics of KwaZulu-Natal communities.
Knowledge of National Youth Development Agency Act. Knowledge of Youth Development
Policy. Knowledge of National and Provincial Practice Notes. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management Practices and procedures. Knowledge of Promotion of Access to Information Act.
Knowledge of Service Delivery frameworks. Knowledge of Human Rights Act. Knowledge of Bill
of Rights Act. Knowledge of Promotion of Administrative Justice Act. Knowledge of Skills
Development Act. Knowledge of Employment Equity Act. Knowledge of Human Resource
Development Strategy of South Africa. Knowledge of National Skills Development Strategy.
Knowledge of the National Development Plan. Knowledge of National Skills Accord. Knowledge
of Youth Employment Accord. Knowledge of Provincial Growth and Development Plan.
Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of KwaZulu-Natal Citizen’s Charter.
Knowledge of Intergovernmental matters. Knowledge of Ministerial Handbook. Knowledge of
Protocol Manual of South Africa. Knowledge of Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair
Discrimination Act and any other relevant Acts / Legislative Mandates. Knowledge of
Management of Information Systems. Language, listening and presentation skills. Analytical
thinking and interpersonal relations skills. Computer skills. Strategic planning and organisational
skills. Research, analytical and leadership skills. Financial management skills. Time
management skills. Report writing and problem-solving skills. Communication skills. Conflict
management and change management skills. Project management and people management
skills. Relationship management skills. Decision making and facilitation skills. Risk Management
skills. Strategic direction and project planning and driving skills. The ideal candidate should be
innovative, independent, time frame driven, meticulous, believe in confidentiality, proactive,
honest, have integrity, be reliable, patient, committed, professional, culturally sensitive, have
perseverance and be punctual. He/she must also be self-disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision and must be able to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Maintain and enhance an effective employee departmental performance management function.
Manage and monitor skills development programmes and bursaries. Manage training and
development of departmental employees. Manage the provision of effective and comprehensive
Human Resource Development support services to the Department. Provide overall strategic
direction and leadership to the Directorate. Chair and provide secretariat and advisory service
to the Human Resource Development Committee. Manage the development and
implementation of National, Provincial and Departmental Directives/ Strategies/ Plans related
to Human Resource Development. Manage the effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Zwane Tel No: (033) 355 8902
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/117 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: DOT 343/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (salary depending on experience), (OSD), (Inclusive flexible
remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mentorship Training Division Directorate: Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House,
Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An engineering degree (BEng / BSc (Eng) - Civil; plus 3 (Three) years post qualification
engineering experience; plus Compulsory Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineer; plus, A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Programme and Project management knowledge.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Knowledge of research and development.
Knowledge of computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Knowledge of technical report writing and networking. Knowledge of creating high performance
culture. Knowledge of engineering and professional judgement. Decision-making, team
leadership and analytical skills. Creativity, self-management and financial management skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness skills. Communication, planning and organizing skills.
Computer Literacy. Conflict and people management skills. Problem solving and analysis skills.
Change management and innovation skills. The ideal candidate should be honest, decisive,
analytical and reliable.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve efficiency and
enhance safety. Human capital development. Office administration and budget planning.
Research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mngomezulu Tel No: (033) 355 8609
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
75
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these positions.
POST 18/118 : GISC TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: DOT 344/2025
Road Declaration & Mapping Directorate
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R442 389 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R498 816 per annum, (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in GISc or Cartography or relevant qualification; plus A minimum of 3 (three)
years post qualification technical (GISc) experience (Experience: Grade A is 0 to12 years post
registration and Grade B is 14 years to 24 years post registration and Grade C is 26 years and
over); plus Compulsory registration with SAGC as a GISc Technician; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge and
Understanding of GIS applications and spatial data queries. Knowledge of Theory, principles
and practices of GIS Standards. Knowledge and capabilities of different GIS software.
Knowledge and understanding of technologies such as GPS, Photogrammetry and Remote
sensing. Knowledge of Projections. Knowledge of principles of cartography. Creativity skills.
Self-management skills. Customer service skills. Excellent Communication skills (verbal, written
and networking). Interpersonal skills. Advanced computer skills. Planning, organizing and
execution skills. Language proficiency skills. Project management skills. Problem solving skills.
Decision making skills. Teamwork skills. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Perform technical GISc activities. Maintain GISc unit effectiveness. People Management.
Functional requirement analysis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Vosloo Tel No: (033) 355 8917
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this position.
POST 18/119 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A REF NO: DOT 345/2025
SALARY : R480 261 - R547 635 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
CENTRE : Mechanical, Ixopo
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Earth moving equipment mechanic/Construction plant
mechanic/Diesel mechanic/Tractor mechanic/ Heavy Equipment mechanic; plus 10 years post
qualification experience as an artisan/artisan foreman plus; Possession of a valid driver’s
licence (minimum Code C1). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Project
management knowledge. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Knowledge of computer-
aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Knowledge of technical report
writing. Knowledge of technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills. Decision
making, teamwork and analytical skills. Creativity and change-management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness skills. Communication, planning and organizing skills. Computer
literacy. Problem solving and analysis skills. The ideal candidate should be honest, decisive,
analytical and reliable.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in the field, workshop and technical office activities.
Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Provide inputs
into existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and
related functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update database.
Manage artisans and related personnel and assets. Financial management: Control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the
commercial value add of the discipline-related activities and services. People management:
Manage the development, motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline to
ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according
to organizational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by
setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to
achieve departmental objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with related bodies/councils on
technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Songca Tel No: (033) 392 6600
76
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this position.
POST 18/120 : PRINCIPAL ROAD SAFETY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
Kindly take note that the post at Vryheid is a re-advertisement, applicants who applied
previously and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cost Centre, Ixopo Ref No: DOT 346/2025
Cost Centre, Vryheid Ref No: DOT 347/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Developmental Studies,
Communication Studies, Education or Road Safety and Traffic Management (NQF Level 6),
plus A minimum of 3 years clerical/administration experience; plus A valid driver’s licence
(minimum code B); plus Proficiency in Isizulu and English. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of Project Management, Data Analysis and Programme Development.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulation, policies and procedures. Computer Literacy. Analytical
and innovative thinking skills. Report writing skills. Research Methodology skills. Ability to work
independently. Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). Problem solving, negotiation
and teaching skills. The ideal candidate should be responsible, conscientious, committed to
community development, have good interpersonal relations, be receptive to ideas and
suggestions and have the ability to communicate with people at all levels. He/she should also
believe in openness and transparency, maintain a high level of professionalism, have honesty,
integrity, reliability and accountability.
DUTIES : Implement Road Safety Programmes/Projects at community-based level through proper
support and monitoring. Execute Departmental Road Safety related events in partnership with
stakeholders. Actively engage in the development of the Road Safety annual performance plan
and monitoring of the budget. Apply and interpret policies relevant to Road Safety programs.
Promote public engagement around Road Safety.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Hlabisa (Ixopo) Tel No: (033) 392 6600
: Mrs EN Moloi (Vryheid) Tel No: (035) 787 1442
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these positions.
POST 18/121 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (PRODUCTION): LICENSING & ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DOT 348/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of the Public Service. Knowledge of e-Natis systems.
Knowledge of the National Land Transport Act (NLTA). Knowledge of the National Public
Transport Regulator (NPTR) and Republic of South Africa Constitution. Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Batho
Pele principles. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Customer care skills. The ideal candidate should be
committed to organizational objectives / projects and programmes, responsible, punctual,
flexible, conscientious and receptive to suggestions and ideas. He/she should also be loyal,
honest, a team player, accurate, neat and tidy and comply with the code of conduct.
DUTIES : Provide licensing, permit and registration services (service desk / bulk application). Perform
back office administrative services. Provide customer care support services. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PZ Thabethe Tel No: (033) 355 0471
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these positions.
77
POST 18/122 : CLEANER (X5 POSTS)
Kindly take note that this a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously and who still
wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Road Traffic Inspectorate:
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Empangeni Ref No: DOT 349/2025 (X2 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Mtubatuba Ref No. DOT 350/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Vryheid Ref No: DOT 351/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Jozini Ref No: DOT 352/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : AET Level 4 / Grade 9. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of cleaning
procedures. Knowledge of refreshment provision. Knowledge of safety requirements attached
to the duties of the post. Knowledge of service delivery programs. Knowledge of operating
appliances. Ability to interpret and act on instructions. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to
operate domestic appliances. Basic literacy and numeracy skills. The ideal candidate should be
reliable, responsible, receptive to suggestions and ideas, polite and believe in honesty and
integrity.
DUTIES : Preparing, serving tea & washing up after tea breaks. Vacuum/ sweep offices, empty and clean
appliances. Clean toilets, lecture room block, windows and glass door. Mopping floors, wipe
/dust walls & surfaces, empty rubbish bins. Polish floor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ET Zulu Tel No: (035) 787 1442/1445/1447
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport,
Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via
postal services to Recruitment & Selection Section, Human Resource Administration
Directorate, Private Bag X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for
posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these positions.
78
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, ROADS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website htt://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. The
application on the eRecruitment system should be accompanied by the new Z83 and recent
comprehensive CV (previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held
and duration/dates). as well as copies of all qualifications, Identity Document and valid driver’s
license only. Failure to attach copies and required documents will result in the application not
being considered/disqualification. Applications may also be hand delivered/posted to:
Department of Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure: Private Bag X9490, Polokwane, 0700
or hand delivered at Works Tower Building, No. 43 Church Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Capricorn District: Private Bag X9378, Polokwane 0700 Or hand deliver at 15 Landros Mare
street, next to Correctional Services. For Mopani District: Private Bag X576, Giyani 0826 or
hand deliver at 570 Parliamentary Building, Giyani.
Sekhukhune District: Private Bag X02, Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand deliver at Lebowakgomo
Zone A, next to traffic department. For Vhembe District: Private Bag X2248, Sibasa, 0970 or
hand deliver at Cnr. Traffic and Raluswielo Street, Sibasa.
Waterberg District: Private Bag X1028, Modimolle, 0510 or hand deliver at Cnr. Thabo Mbeki
& Elias Motsoaledi Street.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : must be submitted on a duly completed prescribed Z83 application for employment form (2021
version) obtainable from any public service department or can be downloaded from
www.dpsa.gov.za. Applications must be accompanied by a detailed CV. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application except
when applying through the erecruitment system. All fields in Part A, Part C and Part D of the
Z83 form should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in full. Part E, F & G
applicants often indicate “refer to CV or see attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV has
been attached and provides the required information. Applicants with foreign qualifications
remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbent will be expected to sign a performance
agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The successful candidate will also be
required to disclose his or her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed regulations.
Shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a competency–based assessment
and a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a security clearance and verification of qualifications. A pre-entry certificate obtained from
National School of Government (NSG) is required for all SMS posts. Proof of the completion of
the SMS pre-entry programme (Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. The recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Check for security reasons. Failure to comply with the above requirements will result
in the disqualification of the application. The Department reserve the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the posts advertised. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months after the closing date, please
consider your application as being unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are advised to seek reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No. 3 of 2000. The department will not carry any
related costs (transport, accommodation or meals) for candidates attending interviews. The
Department of Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity and affirmative
action employer. Women and people living with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/123 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT CO-ORDINATION REF NO: S.4/3/11/3
Component: District Co-ordination
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Mopani
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Five (05) years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level. Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme
and Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem solving and analysis. People
Management and Empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication.
Honesty and Integrity. Skills & Knowledge: Public Service Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Treasury Notes. Labour Relations Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Public Service
Regulations. Government Immovable Assets Management Act (GIAMA).
79
DUTIES : Provide project and programme support: Provide and implement project and programme
management systems for infrastructure management. Provide portfolio, programme and project
governance standards for infrastructure delivery and property management. Provide quality and
safety standards aligned to legislative requirements for infrastructure delivery and property
management. Provide document management system for infrastructure delivery and property
management in close collaboration with Departmental Supply Chain Management. Manage the
mapping of all business processes for infrastructure delivery and property management.
Manage the development of standardised operating procedure manuals for infrastructure
delivery and property management. Provide strategies to improve the rendering of infrastructure
and property management. Provide quality and safety standards for all government buildings
including leases-in. Manage the provision of project mentoring programme, professional
registration mentoring, coaching programmes and support with planning, budgeting and
accounting services. Provide reports and presentations to provide consolidated progress on the
implementation of infrastructure and property management projects and programmes being
implemented in the province. Manage district coordination services: Map property and
infrastructure processes and make continuous recommendation for improvement. Determine
the definition, methodology and design of portfolio, programme and project governance
standards. Develop and maintain project documentation system and build records. Determine
quality and safety standards. Undertake research and enforce green technologies. Consolidate
district budget inputs. Monitor the district expenditure against the allocated budgets. Manage
and oversee the development of district procurement plans. Manage district assets in terms of
availability and movements. Manage the district property and facilities services: Provide the
district acquisition, transfer and donation of state land. Provide and maintain the immovable
asset register. Provide support to other departments in the district on matters pertaining to office
and residential accommodation. Manage rentals and leases. Manage the payment of rates and
taxes to the municipalities. Provide district landscaping designs and services. Manage and
provide cleaning services. Provide district support services: Manage and monitor the district
accounts and payments. Manage the acquisition of goods and services. Manage the stores and
district movable assets. Manage the provision of human resources. Manage the capacitation
and performance of human resources. Manage and monitor the safekeeping of district records.
Manage the provision of fleet and office services. Manage and utilize resources (human,
financial & physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation: Give direction to the
district team in realizing the district strategic objectives. Develop action plans to execute
strategic initiatives. Ensure proper implementation of the budget by monitoring, projecting &
reporting expenditure. Monitor and report on the utilization of equipment. Ensure that the
division is adequately staffed. Manage and monitor performance of district employees. Ensure
capacity and development of staff. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/124 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: S.4/3/2/7
Component: Health Infrastructure Delivery
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment with a minimum of
6 years’ experience as a registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the
SACPCMP, Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Project Management skills, principles
and methodologies. Project and professional judgement. Computer-aided engineering and
project applications. Project design and analysis knowledge. Project operational
communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Legal and operational compliance. Research and development.
Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting. Generic Competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership, problem solving and analysis, decision making, team leadership,
creativity, financial management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
computer skills, people management, planning and organizing, conflict management,
negotiation skills, change management.
DUTIES : Project design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals or audits on
project designs according to design principles or theory. Co – ordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Maintain
project operational effectiveness: Manage the execution of project management strategy
through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set project standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum
operational availability. Monitor project management efficiencies according to organizational
goals to direct or redirect project services for the attainment of organizational objectives.
Financial Management: Ensure availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the project environment/ services. Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to organizational needs and
80
objectives. Manage the commercial added value of the discipline-related programmes and
projects. Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to
organizational principles. Allocate, monitor, control, expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cashflow management. Governance Allocate, monitor and control resources. Compiles
risk logs (database) and manages significant risk according to sound risk management practice
and organisational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the operation of
project related matters to minimise possible project risks. Manage and implement knowledge
sharing initiatives e.g. short – term assignments and secondments within and across operations,
in support of individual development plans, operational requirements and return on investment.
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between operations and
individuals to ensure effective knowledge management according to departmental objectives.
People management Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for
the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of project services
according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance
areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations
to achieve departmental objectives
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 18/125 : SENIOR PROJECT MANAGER: ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE REF NO:
S.4/3/10/147
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering. Five (05) years
relevant experience in roads environment, three (03) years in Junior management position.
Valid driver’s licence with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills: Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Knowledge Of: Relevant Public Service Acts, regulations
and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation, PFMA and Treasury Regulations, Strategic capability and leadership.
DUTIES : Manage the regravelling of roads and construction of drainage structures: Plan and program
roads regravelling and construction of drainage structures. Manage and coordinate the
Identification, approval and the usage of the borrow pits. Manage and ensure the availability of
resources (e.g. road regravelling material). Coordinate the execution of road regravelling
activities. Monitor correct application and adherence to road regravelling and construction of
drainage structure standards. Manage the district road maintenance operations: Manage the
implementation of the road maintenance manual. Manage and control the utilization of heavy
roads construction and maintenance plant and equipments. Manage adherence to Occupational
Health and Safety by providing specifications for camp resources (sanitation resources etc.),
protective clothing and equipments. Manage roads maintenance production and provide
budget. Manage the provision of roads construction and maintenance inspection operations:
Manage the process of conducting visual assessment on roads network and road works
activities. Monitor the execution of roads construction and maintenance activities. Coordinate
the implantation of roads projects. Manage the provision of mechanical services: Manage the
acquisition and disposal of district plant and equipment. Manage the district repairs and
scheduled maintenance of plant and equipment. Manage the mechanical maintenance systems.
Manage roads maintenance plant and equipment. Manage the registration and renewal of
licensing for plant and equipment. Manage the implementation of roads maintenance Expanded
Public Works Programme: Manage the district Expanded Public Works Programme needs
analysis and projects. Monitor and report on completion of small projects. Manage payment of
NYS. Compile the district reports. Manage and utilize resources (human, financial, & physical)
in accordance with relevant directives and legislation: Report on the utilisation of equipments.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity
development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and cultivate a
culture of performance management. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage leave
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 18/126 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES REF NO: S.4/3/3/103
Component: Property and Facilities Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Real Estate. NQF level 07 in Property Studies as recognised
by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience in property management environment with a minimum of
three (3) years at Junior management / ASD level. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Knowledge of: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts,
81
regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Management System. Provincial Land Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and
Land Use Management Act, 2013. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Facilitation. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage land management matters: Facilitate land acquisition processes for the district.
Manage the identification, verification and gather documentation for property to be acquired.
Participate in the integrated development planning process i.r.o. acquisition. Manage, maintain
and update property assets register. Manage and administer property systems. Manage and
facilitate vesting of district property and land. Manage and facilitate disposal of state land.
Manage and facilitate transfers. Manage leases and municipal services: Manage and provide
residential accommodation as required. Manage residential accommodation register for leases
and status. Manage and facilitate the rental collection and schedules. Manage and facilitate
matter pertaining to refunds and arrears on rental recovery. Manage and facilitate monthly
submission of rates and taxes invoices according to stipulated due dates. Manage monthly
payment of municipal levies. Facilitate and analyse leases, municipal rates and taxes. Manage
property inspections and sub-lettings. Compile the arrear accounts report including recovery
projections. Manage facilities services: Manage physical security services and monitor
adherence to service level agreement. Develop, manage and implement waste management
plan. Manage cleaning services. Manage landscaping services. Manage resource (Human,
Financial and Equipment): Manage the component’s budget against its strategic objectives.
Coordinate budget monitoring, projecting & reporting expenditure. Ensure that spending is
maximized in line with strategic objective. Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and
development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management. Manage discipline. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage
division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/127 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/8/92
Component: Corporate Support
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 06 qualification as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ relevant experience of
which three (03) years must be at junior management/ ASD level in HRM. A Valid driver’s
license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. PERSAL training certificate / Result
MUST be attached. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership;
People Management and Empowerment; Financial Management; Change Management;
Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Decision
making; Team leadership; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication. Skills And
Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant public service acts, regulations and frameworks. knowledge
and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. communication skills,
Ms Office package / computer skills.
DUTIES : Manage human resources services: Develop Human Resource Management policy in line with
acts, regulations and directives. Develop and manage resource Management policy, strategies
and processes. Manage and populate the District Human Resource plan. Manage the district
recruitment, selection and appointment processes. Manage and provide inputs to the
recruitment plan. Manage and facilitate transfer and translation of personnel. Manage and
facilitate District head count. Manage and approve PERSAL transactions. Manage and
coordinate resignations (deaths, retirements and resignations). Manage awarding of long
service. Manage and coordinate benefits, state guarantees and housing allowances. Manage
employee wellness: Develop wellness policy in line with acts, regulations and directives.
Develop and manage employee wellness guidelines, strategies and processes. Develop
employee assistance programmes and plans in the district. Manage and conduct district
wellness day. Facilitate HIV/AIDS awareness and campaigns. Manage and monitor
occupational health and safety. Manage auxiliary services in the district: Manage District’s
Government owned and subsidized motor transport: Developing and monitoring implementation
of fleet management policies, strategies, processes and procedures. Manage district fleet.
Facilitate district needs analysis in terms of fleet management. Monitor and implement disposal
of fleet as per policy documents. Liaise and report on redundant fleet with Head Office. Provide
budget projections for fleet. Monitor licensing, servicing and repairing of district fleet. Manage
Telecommunication systems of the district by: Developing and monitoring implementation of
telecommunication policies, strategies, processes and procedures. Manage district
telecommunications. Manage provisioning and distribution of labour serving devices and
disposal of waste papers by: Developing and monitoring implementation of labour saving
policies, strategies, processes and procedures. Manage labour saving devices. Provide budget
for labour serving devices. Monitor service level agreements. Manage provisioning and
distribution of office and domestic services by: Managing and providing budget for office and
82
domestic furniture. Manage and identify redundant furniture. Manage and procure furniture,
protective clothing, cleaning materials and toiletries. Manage and monitor security services.
Manage records: Develop and monitor implementation of records management policies,
strategies, processes and procedures. Manage and advocate the implementation of records file
plan. Manage security of records, Manage and identify vital records and retention periods.
Manage and utilise resources (human, financial & physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation: Plan and organise resources for future requirements (human, finance,
equipment’s etc.). Prepare the budget in line with strategic plans, operational plans and
department’s objectives. Implement the budget by monitoring, projecting & reporting
expenditure. Maximize spending in line with strategic objectives. Monitor performance and task
completions. Set targets. Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and
monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Provide staff capacity and development.
Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance
management. Management of discipline. Provide job descriptions to subordinates. Manage
division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM (PMDS)
REF NO: S.4/3/8/93
Component: Human Resource Development and Performance Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office- Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Human Resource Management / Public Administration and
or Management. Five (5) years’ experience in human resource management environment with
a minimum of three (03) years at Junior Management level / ASD level. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. PERSAL training certificate / Result MUST be
attached. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, Facilitation skills, Problem
solving and analysis, Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity, Financial management,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, People management,
Planning and organising, Conflict management.
DUTIES : Provide Performance Management strategy, Develop Performance management budget and
ensure financial expenditure is according to PFMA budget, Develop and monitor Performance
Management policies and procedures and ensure adherence to mandates and directives,
Monitor and implement performance management according to policy guidelines and directives,
Monitor link between skills gap and audit to performance management system, Monitor that
performance management aimed at improving performance of employee and award the
performers to encourage and improve better performance, Manage PMDS submission
database. Manage issuing of timeous PMDS submission statistics reports, Manage
Performance Management committees and capacity building, Facilitate and coordinate the
appointment of Performance Management committees, Arrange the committees meeting,
Provide secretary for the committees meetings, Report of committees settings and
recommendations, Manage performance appraisal and rewards, Monitor the submission of
PMDS documents, Audit PMDS documents both Head office and districts office, Manage the
implementation of PMDS committee’s recommendations, Generate submission to HOD for
approval to implement performance reward, Oversee the implementation of performance
reward on the PERSAL systems, Manage probation and induction programmes, Liaise with
officer on probation and supervisors to fill the quarterly probation forms, Monitor probation
assessments on PERSAL system, Facilitate submission to HOD for permanent appointment of
officers, Monitor the generating of notification letter for completion of probation, Oversee the
compilation of induction and orientation programme, Oversee the implementation of induction
and orientation programme, Manage resource (Human, Financial and Equipment), Manage the
component’s budget against its strategic objectives, Coordinate budget monitoring, projecting
& reporting expenditure, Ensure that spending is maximized in line with strategic objective,
Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s, Evaluate and monitor performance and
appraisal of employees, Ensure capacity and development of staff, Enhance and maintain
employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management, Manage discipline,
Provide job description to subordinates
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 18/129 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: S.4/3/10/82
Component: Roads and Bridges Maintenance and Building Maintenance
Re-Advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 in built environment field with a minimum of 4 years and six months
certified experience, A qualification at NQF level 7 in built environment field with a minimum of
4 years certified managerial experience, A qualification at NQF level 8 in any built environment
field with a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a
83
Professional Construction Project Manager. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management,
project principles and methodologies, project and professional judgement, computer-aided
engineering and project applications, project design and analysis knowledge, project
operational communication, process knowledge and skills, maintenance skills and knowledge,
mobile equipment operating skills, legal and operational compliance, research and
development, creating high performance culture and technical consulting. Generic
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, problem solving and analysis, decision
making, team leadership, creativity, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, computer skills, people management, planning and
organizing, conflict management, negotiation skills, change management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate all aspects of projects: Guide the project planning, implementation,
monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project management methodology, Create and
execute project work plans and revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and
requirements, Identify resources needed and assign individual responsibilities, Manage day-to-
day operational aspects of a project and scope, Effectively apply methodology and enforce
project standards to minimize risk on projects. Project accounting and financial management:
Report project progress to the Chief Construction Project Manager/Director, Manage project
budget and resources. Office administration: Provide inputs to other professionals with tender
administration. Liaise and interact with service providers, client departments, and management,
Maintain the record management system and the architectural library. Utilise allocated
resources effectively. Research and development: Keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research/literature on new developments on project management methodologies,
Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on project management
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 18/130 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: S.4/3/2/34
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment, 04 years and 06
months experience. A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment
04 years’ experience in Built Environment. A qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA
in Built Environment, 03 years’ experience in Built Environment. Compulsory registration with
the South African Council for the Project and Construction Management Professions
(SACPCMP) as a Professional Construction Project Manager. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service
Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus;
Communication. Skills & Knowledge: Programme and project management. Project
management skills, principles and methodologies. Project and professional judgement.
Computer-aided engineering and project applications. Project design and analysis knowledge.
Project operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Legal and operational compliance. Research and
development. Creating high performance culture technical consulting. Strategic capability and
leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict management. Negotiation skills.
Change management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate all aspects of projects under the supervision of the Chief Construction
Project Manager: Guide the project planning, implementation, monitoring, reporting and
evaluation in line with project management methodology, Create and execute project work plans
and revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements, Identify resources needed
and assign individual responsibilities, Manage day-to-day operational aspects of a project and
scope, Effectively apply methodology and enforce project standards to minimize risk on
projects. Project accounting and financial management: Report project progress to Chief
Construction Project Manager, Manage project budget and resources. Office administration:
Provide inputs to other professionals with tender administration. Liaise and interact with service
providers, client departments, and management, Maintain the record management system and
the architectural library, Utilise allocated resources effectively. Research and development:
Keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature on new developments on
project management methodologies, Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on project
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
84
POST 18/131 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER (X4 POSTS)
Component: Education Infrastructure Delivery X1, Provincial Departments Infrastructure
Delivery X1 and Portfolio Technical Services X1 and Health Infrastructure Delivery.
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane:
Education Ref No. S.4/3/1/79
Provincial Ref No: S4/3/1/80
Technical Portfolio Ref No:S.4/3/1/81
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Mechanical Engineering. 03-05 years
post experience required in mechanical engineering. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Programme and project management. Engineering design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Computer-aided engineering applications. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional judgment. Networking. Generic
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change Management;
Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client
Orientation and Customer focus; Communication. Creativity. Computer skills. Planning and
organizing. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical mechanical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain mechanical engineering
projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards, Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to in new technology, Develop tender
specifications (mechanical), Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is
done according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and
practice, Approve mechanical engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards.
Human capital development: Ensure training and development of technicians, technologists and
candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice, Supervise the mechanical engineering work and processes,
Administer performance management and development. Office administration and budget
planning: Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource
utilization, Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel
administration, Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on mechanical engineering
technology to improve expertise, and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on mechanical
engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 18/132 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (X4 POSTS)
Component: Health, Education, Other Provincial
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane:
Health Ref No: S.4/3/1/82
Portfolio Ref No: S.4/3/1/83
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Electrical Engineering. 03 -05 years’
experience required in Electrical engineering. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Programme and project management. Engineering design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Computer-aided engineering applications. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional judgment. Networking. Generic
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change Management;
Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client
Orientation and Customer focus; Communication. Creativity. Computer skills. Planning and
organizing. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical electrical engineering challenges and improve efficiency
and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain electrical engineering projects. Develop
cost effective solutions according to standards, Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to in new technology, Develop tender specifications (electrical),
Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is done according to sound
engineering principles and according to norms and standards and practice, Approve electrical
engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards. Human capital development:
Ensure training and development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
85
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and code of
practice, Supervise the electrical engineering work and processes, Administer performance
management and development. Office administration and budget planning: Manage resources
and prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization, Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration, Monitor and
control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and development:
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on electrical engineering technology to improve expertise, and
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on mechanical engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 18/133 : CIVIL ENGINEER REF NO: S4/3/10/96 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Roads and Bridges Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering. 03- 05 years’
experience required in Civil Engineering. Compulsory registration with ECSA as Professional
Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Engineering design and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge
of legal compliance. Computer-aided engineering applications. Technical report writing.
Creating high performance culture. Professional judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and
Project Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management;
Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer
focus; Communication. Creativity. Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical civil/ structural engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain civil/ structural engineering
projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards, Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to in new technology, Develop tender
specifications (civil/ structural), Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is
done according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and
practice, Approve civil/ structural engineering works according to prescribed norms and
standards. Human capital development: Ensure training and development of technicians,
technologists and candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound engineering principles and code of practice, Supervise the civil/ structural engineering
work and processes, Administer performance management and development. Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs for
the facilitation of resource utilization, Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for
procurement and personnel administration, Monitor and control expenditure. Report on
expenditure and service delivery. Research and development: Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
civil/ structural engineering technology to improve expertise, and Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on civil/ structural engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 18/134 : ARCHITECT REF NO: S.4/3/1/05
Component: Other Provincial Departments Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R772 572 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 07 as recognized by South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
in Architecture or relevant qualification. 03 years post qualification in architectural experience
required. Compulsory registration with South African Council for the Architectural Profession
(SACAP) as a professional Architect. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People
Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project Management; Financial
Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation;
Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication. Skills &
Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks.
Programme and Project Management. Architectural design and analysis knowledge. Computer-
aided engineering applications. Research and Development. Knowledge of Legal Compliance.
Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Networking. Professional
judgement. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical Skills. Creativity. Self- management.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state owned or leased buildings, structures or facilities: Co-
ordinate professional team on all aspects regarding architecture. Ensure adherence and
compliance with legal, safety, and health requirements. Provide architectural advice and
86
technical support in the evaluation of solutions. Ensure the adoption of technical and quality
strategies. Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices. Provide solution on
non-compliance and failure of designs. Review plans, drawings, specifications and estimates
accomplished by building designs and/or sub-designs and/or sub-professional personnel.
Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration. Human capital development:
Mentor, train and develop candidate architects and related technical and administrative
personnel to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural principles
and code of practice. Supervise architectural work and processes. Administer performance
management and development. Office administration and budget planning: Manage resources,
prepare and consolidate input for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure adherence to
regulations and procedures for procurement SCM and human resource administration. Monitor
and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research/literature studies on architecture to improve expertise. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 18/135 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: S.4/3/10/58
Component: Regraveling and Drainage Structure
Re-advert
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering. Three (03) years of
experience at supervisory level in Roads Maintenance environment. Valid driver’s license, with
the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team leadership. Creativity, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, People management, Planning and
organising. Knowledge Of: Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. PFMA and Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Manage the roads regravelling of roads. Identify the areas of the that needs regravelling.
Planning of work to be done. Coordinate and facilitate work. Facilitate the preparation of quarry
site and stockpiling of gravel. Conduct assessment of the work. Manage construction of
drainage structures. Identify the spot that needs drainage. Quantify the material needed. Identify
all working area environment before the work is started. Conduct inspection (Installation of
pipes, maintenance of existing pipes). Assess compliance to OHS legislation. Investigate and
report accidents. Inform OHS unit about the potential danger. Consolidate the availability of
equipment and ensure proper maintenance. Liaise with the mechanical workshop on:
Equipment/plant that are available. Breakdowns are reported. Plant/equipment are well
maintained. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipments. Evaluate and monitor
performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity development of subordinates.
Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and cultivate a culture of performance
management. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 18/136 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER: REGRAVELING & DRAINAGE REF NO: S.4/3/10/164
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering. 03 years relevant
experience in roads construction and maintenance environment. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge Of: Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation.
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Core Competency: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management. Planning and
organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage the roads regravelling of roads. Identify the areas of the that needs regravelling.
Planning of work to be done. Coordinate and facilitate work. Facilitate the preparation of quarry
site and stockpiling of gravel. Conduct assessment of the work. Manage construction of
drainage structures. Identify the spot that needs drainage. Quantify the material needed. Identify
all working area environment before the work is started. Conduct inspection (Installation of
pipes, maintenance of existing pipes). Assess compliance to OHS legislation. Investigate and
report accidents. Inform OHS unit about the potential danger. Consolidate the availability of
equipment and ensure proper maintenance. Liaise with the civil workshop on: Equipment/plant
that are available. Breakdowns are reported. Plant/equipment are well maintained. Manage and
utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
87
legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipments. Evaluate and monitor performance and
appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and
maintain subordinates motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide
job description to subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/137 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY & PLANNING REF NO: S.4/3/3/62
Component: Directorate: Operations Management
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 qualifications in Urban & Regional Planning/ Real Estate. NQF
level 07 in Real Estate/ Property Studies/ Urban & Regional Planning/ Town & Regional
Planning as recognised by SAQA. 03 years’ experience in property management environment
at supervisory level. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Core
And Process Competencies: Facilities Management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service
Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation. Provincial Land Administration Act, 1998. Government
immovable asset management Act. Provincial infrastructure delivery management system.
Spatial planning and land use management act Property valuation. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management. Planning and
organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Develop the User Management Plan (U-AMP): Match asset requirement with service delivery
objectives of users. Verify the assets occupied or allocated to user. Determine functional
performance of assets. Determine utilization of assets. Conduct GAP analysis. Determine new
asset requirements. Determine refurbishment/reconfiguration. Determine surplus assets to be
surrendered. Determine repairs that need to be conducted. Prepare immovable asset budget.
Conduct assessment of User Asset Management Plans: Assess Utilization Assessment. Assess
compliance. Assess user accommodation requirements. Assess acquisition plan. Assess
Refurbishment plan. Assess repairs plan. Assess surrender plan. Develop the custodian
Management Plan (C-AMP): Compile portfolio profile. Compile asset performance report.
Lifecycle planning. Conduct portfolio analysis. Develop works plan. Develop asset management
budget 1C-AMP. Coordinate GIAMA Provincial User Department Forum GPUDF): Develop
schedule for the meetings. Render logistical arrangements (e.g. issue invitations, venue, draft
the agenda). Render secretarial services. Draft report of the meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/138 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/3/113
Component: Property Management
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Real Estate. NQF level 07 in Property Studies as recognised
by SAQA. 03 years’ experience in property management environment at supervisory level. A
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of persons with disabilities. Core And Process
Competencies: Facilities Management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations
and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. Provincial Land Administration Act, 1998. Government immovable asset
management Act. Provincial infrastructure delivery management system. Spatial planning and
land use management act Property valuation. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Team leadership. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Manage district asset register: Develop plans and processes for registering immovable assets.
Update asset register. Manage and oversee the identification of, inspection and investigation of
fixed state properties. Identify and register state farms in the district. File erven in the appropriate
asset register. Identify the location of properties and ownership. Manage the processing of
transferring property to private tenants and municipalities. Manage and compile list of sec 14
schools (public schools built in private properties). Manage disposal and transfer of state
properties: Manage verification of vesting status before disposal of state properties. Manage
and update the asset register in terms of disposals and transfers. Monitor disposal in terms of
the departmental policy and decisions of the disposal committee. Manage the signing of the
Deeds of Sale. Property ownership with deeds office. Provide information to document offer to
purchase. Facilitate registering of property in the name of tenant after full purchase price has
been paid. Manage land acquisition and vesting: Input in the development of annual plan for the
acquisition of land and buildings. Identify properties for acquisition and vesting at the district.
Participate in preparation of documents for tendering purposes. Update the assets register in
terms of property acquisition and vesting. Undertake research for supportive documentation
required for vesting of properties. Provide advice on the acquisition of immovable property for
88
office space in line with the planned Government precinct. Verify as to whether the property is
vested Nationally, Provincially and/or locally. Verify National Rural Legislative data in terms of
property information. Manage the process of vesting applications. Manage office allocation:
Manage and collect information to determine space norms for offices. Apply space norms for
offices against existing utilisation trends. Design office floor layout. Determine needs for parking
at different offices. Allocate office space. Provide resource (Human, Financial and Equipment):
Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and
appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain
employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage discipline.
Provide job description to subordinates. Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 18/139 : CHIEF ARTISAN: BUILDING MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/2/31
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten (10) years post qualification experience required as an
Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Skills & Knowledge: Project Management, Technical design and analysis, Computer aided
technical applications, Legal compliance, technical report writing, technical consulting,
Production, process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities, Ensure
the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements, provide inputs into
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology,
Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process, Compile and submit reports as required. Provide
and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan, Update database, Manage artisans and
related personnel and assets. Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure
according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management, Manage the commercial value
add of the discipline – related activities and services. People Management: Manage the
development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according to
organizational needs and requirements, Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by
setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to
achieve departmental objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures, Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise, Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 18/140 : CHIEF ARTISAN REF NO: S.4/3/10/98
Component: Drainage Structures
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten (10) years post qualification experience required as an
Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Skills And Knowledge: Project Management. Technical design and analysis. Computer aided
technical applications. Legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting.
Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Teamwork. Creativity. Change Management. Financial Management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and Organizing. Core And Process
Competencies: People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation;
Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities. Ensure
the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology.
Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide
and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update database. Manage artisans and
related personnel and assets. Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure
according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value
add of the discipline – related activities and services. People Management: Manage the
development. Motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according to
organizational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by
89
setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to
achieve departmental objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 18/141 : CHIEF ARTISAN: BUILDING MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/2/32
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune- Tubatse
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Plumbing/ Carpentry/ Bricklaying/ Electrical. Ten years
post qualification experience as an Artisan/ Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project Management,
Technical Design and analysis, Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance,
Technical report writing, technical Consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Manage Technical Services: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities. Ensure
the promotion of safety in line with statutory regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
Quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related functions:
Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update database. Manage artisans and
related personnel and assets. Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure
according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value
add of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage the
development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according to
organizational needs and requirement. Manage subordinate: Key performance areas by setting
and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual development
to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical/
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/142 : CHIEF ARTISAN: DRAINAGE REF NO: S.4/3/10/121
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune Drainage Structures
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten years post qualification experience as an Artisan/
Artisan Foreman in Shuttering / Steel Fixing / Concrete. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project Management, Technical Design
and analysis, Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical report
writing, technical Consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities. Ensure
the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology.
Ensure quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide
and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update database. Manage artisans and
related personnel and assets. Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure
according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value
add of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage the
development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according to
organizational needs and requirement. Manage subordinate: Key performance areas by setting
and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual development
to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical/
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
90
POST 18/143 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORY
SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/9/79
Component: Procurement Management
Re-advert
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised by SAQA in Financial Management / Supply Chain
Management. Three (03) years’ supervisory position in Contract Management environment at
Supervisory level 7/8. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Core Competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership.
Creativity, Financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication,
Computer skills, People management, Planning and organising. Knowledge OF: relevant Public
Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation. Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the
following: - Supply Chain Management procedures. Procurement Procedures. PFMA. DORA.
PPPFA. Knowledge of CSD, LOGIS.
DUTIES : Monitor, analyse and determine actions to ensure proper contract administration. Administer
variations to the contracts. Evaluate applications for price adjustments and invoke penalty
clauses. Evaluate applications for variations, amendments and cancelations and develop
proposals for approval. Undertake dispute resolution and ensure that all documentation is
prepared and available to resolve disputes. Maintain proper relationship with suppliers within
the code of ethics to ensure deliver off goods/services. Monitor contract compliance. Determine
whether product/services are delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, right products,
right place, right conditions, right quality and right price according to the contract. Monitor
supplier performance according to the contract and service level agreement. Monitor RDP goals
claimed. Monitor Participation of targeted groups in terms of the Departmental goals and PGDS.
Verify the existence of project. Provide Supply Chain Management helpdesk. Provide advice
and assistance to prospective contractors/ service providers on bidding matters. Attend to
complaints from dissatisfied contractors/ service providers by accessing the evaluation reports.
Attend to SCM queries. Attend to CIDB related enquiries and queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/144 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO:
S.4/3/10/74 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Procurement Management
Re-advert
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised by SAQA. A qualification at NQF level 07 as
recognised by SAQA in Procurement/SCM/Finance/Logistics will be an added advantage. 03
years of experience within Supply Chain Management at supervisory level 7/8. Valid driver’s
license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills: Knowledge of relevant Public
Service Acts, regulations and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management procedures,
Procurement Procedures, PFMA, DORA, PPPFA, Strategic capability and leadership.
Knowledge of CSD & LOGIS.
DUTIES : Coordinate (synergize), review, research, analyze and plan the procurement needs of the
department: Research the relevant identified needs. (in line with the SC strategy), Analyze
requirements, undertake research, determine and develop proposals for implementation, Asses
the results of the research on the market, interprets and develops proposals for procurement
methodology, Ensure compliance with quality requirements, Determine whether specifications
should contain any special conditions. Proposals as required. Coordinate review, collect and
collate information for the annual procurement plan: Collect information from the relevant role
players according to the prescribed template, Check (engage) and analyze the information,
Confirm availability of budget, Check alignment against strategic and other objectives,
Consolidate into procurement plan and table for approval by the accounting officer. Supervise
and compile tender/quotation specifications as required: Determine whether a specification for
the relevant commodity exists. If not oversee the collection and collation of information and the
compilation of specifications/terms of reference, Compile and publish request for proposals as
required. Develop, implement and maintain the supplier database: Perform general quality
assurance of information in the supplier database (e.g. check and verify supporting documents).
Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical): Report on the utilisation of
equipment’s, Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates, Provide
capacity development of subordinates, Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and
cultivate a culture of performance management, Provide job description to subordinates,
Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
91
POST 18/145 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO:
S.4/3/10/75
Component: Procurement Management
Re-advert
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised by SAQA. A qualification at NQF level 07 in
Procurement/SCM/Logistics/ Accounting / Economics / Business Management / Financial
Management will be an added advantage. 03 years of experience at supervisory level 7/8 within
Supply Chain. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills &
Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks,
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation, Treasury
Regulations, Supply Chain Management procedures, Procurement Procedures, PFMA, DORA,
PPPFA, Strategic capability and leadership. Knowledge of CSD & LOGIS.
DUTIES : Coordinate (synergize), review and execute the bidding process: Provide secretariat services
to the Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid Adjudication Committee (includes obtaining approval),
Compile bid documents, Publish tender invitations, Receiving and opening of bid documents.
Coordinate, review, and compile the list of prospective providers for quotations: Compile terms
of reference to invite service providers for an expression of interest, Receive, evaluate and
adjudicate the expressions of interest, Compile a database of approved suppliers. Coordinate
review, and source quotations from database according to the threshold values determined by
the National Treasury. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical): Report on
the utilisation of equipment’s, Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates,
Provide capacity development of subordinates, Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management, Provide job description to subordinates,
Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/146 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OD & JOB EVALUATION REF NO: S.4/3/8/94
Component: Human Resource Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Management Services, Production Management, Operations
Management as recognised by SAQA. 03 years at Supervisory level 7/8 / OD Practitioner within
Organisational development and job evaluation environment. Job Evaluation Certificate by
NSG/ SAMDI. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills &
Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity,
Financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills,
People management, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Provide organizational development services, Implement organizational development policies
and processes, Facilitate the development of organizational development plan and strategies,
Assess the effectiveness of the organizational structure and identifying opportunities to
strengthen the structure, Facilitate the design of macro and micro organizational structures to
enable the department to deliver on its mandate, Develop and design of job
descriptions/profiles, Facilitate the consultative processes necessary for the implementation of
the organizational structure, Provide guidance for the defining and acceptance of departmental
roles and responsibilities, Facilitates executive decisions on the determination and allocation of
posts and the total post establishment of the department in line with the strategic needs of the
department, Provide job evaluation services, Implement job evaluation policy and processes,
Advice on request for job evaluation, Evaluate posts in the department, Develop job evaluation
database, Advice on implementation of new developments and or amendments, Conduct
workshop on job evaluation and other related matters, Provide operation management
framework, Provide service delivery model, Conduct organizational functionality assessment,
Provide business mapping, Facilitate the development of standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/147 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: S.4/3/8/95
Component: Corporate Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. An NQF level 06 as recognized by
SAQA in Social Work, Psychology / Nursing Sciences. Three (03) years’ experience at
supervisory level 7/8. Registration with South Africa Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP). Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
92
DUTIES : Promote and implement the occupational health, safety and environmental management
strategies and programmes: Implement Safety, Health, Environment, Risk and Quality
(SHERQ) programmes. Implement HIRA and its recommendations. Conduct Occupational
Health and Safety inspections/ audits. Facilitate the election, appointment and training of First
Aiders, She reps and Fire Fighters. Facilitate the establishment and functionality of OHS
committee. Develop emergency evacuation plans and procedures. Coordinates emergency
evacuation drills. Implement HIV and AIDS, TB and other diseases management: Coordinate
educational sessions/awareness and screening. Provide support to identified clients. Provide
assistance and support to extended family members of employees. Manage and monitor after
care follow – up of employee health and wellness clients. Conduct research and analyses of
district employee health and wellness cases. Implement correction measures and/or
recommendation of research on employee health and wellness cases. Facilitate the election,
appointment and training of Peer Educators. Facilitate the establishment and functionality of
Peer Educator committee. Conduct EAP marketing programmes. Provide counselling services,
debrief sessions and referrals of cases. Conduct EAP case analysis. Facilitate the
implementation of health and productivity management programmes: Conduct awareness and
educational sessions on various diseases. Monitor referrals of patients and provide after care
support. Monitor assessment and referral of patients on various diseases. Provide support to
patients. Provide social wellness activities in the district. Distribute health and related
pamphlets. Conduct research and analyses of district diseases management. Provide
correction measures and/or recommendation on diseases management. Provide the
administration and support in reporting of occupational injuries and diseases: Implement injury
on duty policy, processes and procedures. Conduct injury on duty awareness programmes.
Manage injury on duty register. Conduct injury on duty investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 18/148 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: S.4/3/8/96
Component: Corporate Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane- Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. A qualification at NQF level 06 in Health
Science or Social Science. Registration with relevant professional bodies. Three (03) years’
lower managerial/supervisory position /level 7/8 in the Employee Health and Wellness
environment. Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Health and Productivity programmes: Implement Employee
Health and wellness policies, strategies, intervention plan guidelines and processes to provide
employee assistance programme. Develop programmes that reduce depression and anxiety,
and deal with post traumatic distress. Implement guidelines of mainstreaming employee health
and wellness. Promote diseases and chronic illness management. Ensure disease
management awareness programmes and education programmes. Promote co-operation
between health practitioners/specialists and patients. Develop programmes for improvement of
employee health and reduction of workforce turnover. To promote the management of mental
health and psychosomatic illness. Mitigate stigma and discrimination. Provide crises
intervention, short-term therapy/or refer clients to appropriate professional: Assess clients,
identify problems and render counselling services. Provide individual and group counselling.
Co-ordinate referrals to internal/external resources. Refer cases to other resources. Provide
reports on referred clients. Monitor progress of treatment. Follow up on re-intergration and
readjustment of clients at work. Co-ordinate and provide for the implementation of HIV and AIDS
programme in the department: Conduct health promotion awareness sessions based on the
health calendar. Monitor ill health trends. Investigate and do necessary follow-up on chronic
conditions. Facilitate medical surveillance programmme. Distribute and promote condom use
for both male and female. Compile reports. Provide advice on HIV and AIDS related issues to
employees affected and infected. Develop and strengthen partnership with relevant internal and
edxternal stakeholders on management of HAST programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/149 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: MECHANICAL WORKSHOP REF NO: S.4/3/10/121
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District-Groblersdal Mechanical Workshop
REQUIREMENTS : Trade Test Certificate (Diesel Mechanic). Five (05) post qualification years experience as an
Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Technical analysis. Computer aided technical applications. Legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Technical consulting Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
DUTIES : Design. Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Production. Produce objects with material and equipment’s according to job
specification and recognised standards. Maintenance. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for
93
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities according to
schedule. Quality assures serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform
administrative and related functions. Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Provide
Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and purchase equipment and
materials. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to the operational plan.
Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations.Supervise and mentor
staff. Maintain expertise. Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies
and procedure. Human and capital resource management: Supervise and mentor staff.
Planning of resources. Scheduling of work
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/150 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: BUILDING MAINTENANCE (X2 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District:
Tubatse Electrical Ref No: S.4/3/2/15
Thabamoopo (Electrical) Ref No: S.4/3/2/88
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years post qualification experience as an Artisan. Valid
driver’s license with the exception of people with disabilities. Knowledge: Project Management.
Technical design and analysis. Computer aided technical applications. Legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Change Management.
Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment’s according to
job specification and recognised standards. Quality assurance of produced objects.
Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures serviced and
maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Update
register of maintained and repaired faults. Provide Supply Chain Management with specification
to obtain quotations and purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management: Supervise and
mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of work. Maintain expertise: Continuous
individual development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature
studies on technical/engineering technology to improve expertise
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/151 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/8/97
Component: Corporate Support
Re-advert
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA in Logistics, Transport Management,
Public Management, Public Administration. 02- 03 years’ experience in relevant environment.
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge & Skills:
Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks, Knowledge and
understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. Problem solving and analysis,
Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, People management, Planning and
organising.
DUTIES : Provide the administration of District’s Government owned and subsidised motor transport.
Provide departmental fleet acquisition services. Administer the renewal process of vehicle
licences. Issue government vehicle. Facilitate the maintenance and repair of government
vehicle. Render accidents administration. Facilitate the disposal of government vehicle.
Facilitate the administration of subsidised vehicles. Provide the administration of
Telecommunication systems of the district. Facilitate installations of landlines and extensions.
Liaise with service providers with regard to service maintenance and activation of speed dials
and Pin Codes. Evaluate applications for required cell phones for submission to Head office.
Receive approval to procure and facilitate the procurement of the cell phone. Monitor
compliance to allocated airtime as per Departmental policy. Analyse monthly statements of
account and monitor payments of private calls. Provide the administration and distribution of
Labour Saving device and disposal of waste papers. Liaise with service provider with regard to
distribution and maintenance and service of leased and procured office machines –
photocopiers. Ratify and process the invoices. Monitor compliance to service level agreements.
94
Facilitate sorting and shredding of waste papers. Liaise with service provider with regard to
collection of packaged waste paper. Compile report to Head office with regard to units of papers
collected and amount paid. Provide the administration and distribution of office and domestic
services. Conduct need assessment in respect of required number and type of office and
domestic furniture and distribute according to the set norm. Determine and Facilitate
maintenance and repair of broken office and domestic furniture. Facilitate the disposal of
redundant or irreparable furniture. Conduct periodic inspection with regard to all furniture taken
on stock. Procurement of Uniform and Protective Clothing. Facilitate accommodation need.
Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical). Report on the utilisation of
equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide
capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and
cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job description to subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/152 : ADMIN OFFICER: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/3/79
Component: Sub-Directorate: Facilities Management
Re-advert
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani - Maruleng Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. 02 years of experience in
Facilities/Property Management environment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts,
regulations and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity,
Financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills,
People management, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Provide cost centre government vehicles services. Issue and receive trip authorisation form.
Allocate cars. Monitor the inspections of cars upon allocation. Facilitate exemption to drive after
working hours. Report accidents and incidents to the district office. Safe keep the keys, fuel cars
and log books. Monitor verification of the log books according to the trip authorisation form.
Provide fleet report. Provide cleaning and landscaping services. Provide inputs for the
procurement of protective clothing. Provide specifications inputs for procurement of landscaping
equipment and materials. Report on repairs and servicing of landscaping equipment. Allocate
cleaners and groundsmen to serve for both the roads and building cost centre. Provide general
and administration support services: Facilitate the residential accommodation services by:
Receive and submit the accommodation application to the district office. Liaise with requestor
about the status of the application. Update the allocation register. Facilitate the human resource
services in the cost centre. Receive and consolidate cost centre leave application for submission
to the district office. Receive and consolidate cost centre PMDS documents for submission to
the head office. Facilitate and arrange district meetings, workshops etc. Monitor switchboard
operation for cost centre. Provide resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Monitor and
report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of
employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee
motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage discipline. Provide job
description to subordinates. Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
POST 18/153 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: S.4/8/8/68
Component: Employee Health and Wellness
Re-advert
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office-Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. A qualification at NQF level 06 as
recognized by SAQA in Health Sciences/ Administration. 02 years experience in compensation
and medical claims processing environment. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills & Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis,
Confidentiality, Creativity, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication. Computer
skills, People management, Planning and organising. Conflict management, Presentation and
Report writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases (COID) programme in the
Department: Collate the statistical information on Occupational Injuries and Diseases (IOD) in
the department. Manage proper implementation of COID cases. Conduct audit on OID in the
Department. Record fatal and report critical OID cases to the Department of Labour. Ensure
that all notified IOD/occupationally acquired diseases cases are reported to the Office of the
Compensation Commissioner. Maintain COID data base and IOD register for all cases in the
department. Ensure payment of the Administration fee to the Office of the Compensation
Commissioner as prescribed by law. Report all IOD/occupationally acquired diseases cases on
line with the Department of Labour Systems. Payment of goods and services in line with PFMA
and Supply Chain Management framework, for both the Head Office and the District offices.
95
Liaise with employees and medical specialists/other service providers regarding the submission
of medical reports and bills. Verify and prepare submissions for the payment of medical bills for
OID/occupationally acquired cases. Advice on the budget projection for COID/occupationally
acquired cases. Collate proof of payment of all medical bills and administration fee and keep
records thereof/ update commitment register. COID Administration: Ensure that all notified
cases are finalized with the Office of the Compensation Commissioner. Ensure that outstanding
documents of all notified cases are followed up with the office of the Compensation
Commissioner, Provincial and National Treasury, Serviced providers, Family members & etc.
Liaise with employees and medical specialists/ other service providers regarding the submission
of medical reports and bills. Advise employees on further management of cases once closed by
the Department of Labour. Administer awards as issued by Department of Labour. Support OHS
Assistant Director: Perform delegated task and give feedback. Support OHS Assistant Director
on the realization of sectional goals. Supervise OHS intern. Manage leave for intern.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/154 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ACQUISITION REF NO: S.4/3/9/82
Component: Directorate: Procurement Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office-Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. 02-03 years related supply chain
experience. A qualification at NQF level 6 in Procurement/SCM/Logistics/ Accounting /
Economics / Business Management / Financial Management will be an added advantage. Skills
& Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Creativity, Financial
management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, People
management. Planning and organising, Conflict management.
DUTIES : Render acquisition of goods and services, Consolidate requests for invitation of bids and
quotation, Verify specifications for goods and services, Prepare bids invitation documents to
provincial Treasury for publication, Issue bids documents, Receive quotation, Facilitate opening
of bids and quotations, Register received bids and quotation documents from the bid box,
Provide BAC secretariat, Prepare submission to appoint member of the BAC, Conduct
clearance of appointed members, Provide logistical arrangements for BAC meetings, Provide
secretariat function to the BAC, Render bids evaluation Implement bids evaluation policy
processes and procedures, Implement guidelines for appointment of bids evaluation committee,
Register received bids and quotation documents from the bid box for evaluation, Prepare
appointment letters for BEC members, Hand over appointment letters, the code of conduct and
oath of secrecy to BEC members, Conduct security clearance for members of the BEC,
Facilitate evaluation of bids and quotations, Provide and monitor the evaluation process,
Capture information for all bids and quotations, Prepare an evaluation report- submission,
Conduct clearing successful bidders with the National Treasury register of restricted supplier in
line with SCM Guide for AO: Section 4.2
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/155 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/9/84
Component: Financial Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Financial Management. 02- 03 years’
experience in the finance environment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. BAS certificate / results will an added advantage. Knowledge And
Competencies: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. Knowledge
of Treasury Regulations, PFMA, DORA, PPPFA. Skills & Knowledge: People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Creativity. Financial management. Communication. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Process payments and accounts: Receive order from supply chain. Check for delivering note
and invoice. Compile payment voucher for EBT transfer. Capture/ approve payment voucher on
LOGIS. Receive EBT stubs. Link stubs and invoices and dispatch copy of stubs to suppliers.
File payment vouchers according to system. Reconcile supplier statements against payments.
Negotiate with suppliers regarding payments. Compile monthly register for fruitless and wasteful
expenditure and submit to Head Office. Compile monthly report for payments made after thirty
(30) days. Capture EPWP stipends on BAS. Provide salary: Check authenticity of documents
to be capture on PERSAL system. Capture PERSAL transactions such as allowances,
deductions, fringe benefits and IRP deductions. Provide PERSAL administration in salary
enquiries and reports. Monitor submission of taxpayers IRP 3A to SARS. Identify and specify
state liabilities on pension fund. Provide revenue: Collection of Government money. Issue
receipts manual or online under correct allocation. Register receipts in cash book. Deposit
money. Balance receipts, cash book and deposit book. Verify bank money. Verify and approve
96
receipts in the BAS. Day-end receipts on BAS. Confirm deposits on BAS. Monitor online receipts
and deposits for reconciliation. Compile monthly reports. Keep a register for reserve face value
forms. Facilitate debt: Open debt file for relevant employer. Complete BAS Debt take on and
attached supporting documents for submission to Head Office for implementation of debt on
suspense account. Receive advices from Head Office to implement debt on PERSAL in cases
where the debtor is a government/department employee. Liaise with Head Office in updating of
BAS records. Conceive reports from HEAD Office in clearing of Debts. Close Debt files. Provide
resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report on the utilisation of
equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity
and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management. Manage discipline. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage
division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
POST 18/156 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER REF NO: S.4/3/8/99
Component: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in HRM /Public Management / Public
Administration/Training / Development. 02 (Two) years of experience within Human Resource
environment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. PERSAL
results / certificate will an added advantage. Knowledge And Competencies: Knowledge of
relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of
policy analysis, development and interpretation. Strategic capability and leadership. Skills:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People
management. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Provide recruitment services: Receive applications from registry and keep record thereof.
Provide statistics of received application per post. Compile scheduling of district posts. Provide
the administration for district selection services. Facilitate shortlisting and interviews in the
district. Provide the administration for district appointment services. Provide the administration
of conditions of services: Provide the administration for service termination due to death/
resignation, retirement (normal and early retirement). Provide the administration for employee
benefits such as pensions, housing allowances, medical aid scheme recognition of long service
awards. Facilitate state guarantees. Monitor attendance and leave registers. Facilitate PILIR.
Conduct district leave auditing. Provide the administration of post establishment and HR
system: Provide the administration for transfer and translation of personnel. Effect the
translation and transfer of personnel upon receipt of approval from the HOD. Conduct district
head count. Capture PERSAL transaction. Facilitate and coordinate district human resource
development services: Assist in the development of district workplace skills plan. Liaise with
head office on schedule of courses to be attended. Provide the administration for the
learnerships and internships. Verify the compilation of performance management and
development system documentation. Render secretariat services in performance management
and development system moderation. Conduct performance management and development
system workshops. Provide the administration for performance management and development
system rewards/incentives. Coordinate the employment relations services: Liaise with head
office on grievances and misconducts. Facilitate district labour forums. Provide secretariat to
the labour forums. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical): Report on the
utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates.
Provide capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job description to subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/157 : ADMIN OFFICER: LAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/8/96
Component: Property and Facilities Services
Re-advert
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Real Estate. NQF level 07 in Property Studies as recognised
by SAQA. 02 years’ experience in property management environment. Valid Drivers License
with exception of people with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Facilities
Management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. Provincial
Land Administration Act, 1998. Government immovable asset management Act. Provincial
infrastructure delivery management system. Spatial planning and land use management act
Property valuation. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People
management. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
97
DUTIES : Provide district asset register: Implement processes for assets registering. Provide records of
new properties and update asset register. Identify, inspect and investigation of fixed state
properties. Identify and register state farms in the district. Provide information regarding state
land, schools, and houses. File erven in an appropriate Asset Register. Identify the location of
properties and ownership. Process of transferring property to private tenants and municipalities.
Compile list of sec 14 schools (public schools built in private properties). Provide disposal and
transfer of State properties: Implement disposal and transfer policies and plans. Implement
processes to dispose and transfer state properties. Identify redundant properties. Submit list of
redundant properties identified to Head Office. Update the asset register in terms of disposals
and transfers. Provide information for compilation of business cases for disposal and transfer.
Dispose in terms of the departmental policy and decisions of the disposal committee. Provide
property ownership with deeds office. Ensure that properties are vested in the name of Province
of Limpopo. Provide information to document offer to purchase. Facilitate registration of property
in the name of tenants after full purchase price has been paid. Receive disposal letter after
Head Office has finalized the process. Remove the property from the Asset Register. Conduct
& facilitate the process of land acquisition: Implement land acquisition and vesting policies and
plans. Implement land acquisition and vesting processes. Provide vesting of state properties.
Identify properties for acquisition and vesting at districts. Update the assets register in terms of
property acquisition and vesting. Provide advice on the acquisition of immovable property for
office space. Verify as to whether the property is vested Nationally, Provincially and locally.
Assist with the implementation of the vesting of properties. Verify National Rural Legislative data
in terms of property information. Check the reference numbers from the Deeds Office for land
use. Facilitate requests for zoning certificates. Facilitate requests for clearance certificates.
Provide office accommodation to provincial departments, district & local municipalities:
Implement office space policies and procedures and space norms. Collect information to
determine space norms for offices. Apply space norms for offices against existing utilisation
trends. Design office floor layout. Determine needs for parking at different offices. Provide
resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report on the utilisation of
equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity
and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management. Manage discipline. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage
division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/158 : ADMIN OFFICER: LEASE AND MUNICIPALITY SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/3/91
Component: Property and Facilities Services
Re-advert
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Real Estate. NQF level 07 in Property Studies as recognised
by SAQA. 02 years’ experience in property management environment. Valid Drivers License
with exception of people with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Facilities
Management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. Provincial
Land Administration Act, 1998. Government immovable asset management Act. Provincial
infrastructure delivery management system. Spatial planning and land use management act
Property valuation. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People
management. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Provide accommodation (residential): Implement accommodation policy, strategy and
processes. Implement accommodation plan. Provide accommodation in the district. Facilitate
accommodation allocation committee meetings. Receive applications of accommodations.
Compile and monitor accommodation status register. Update allocation register. Provide leases:
Implement lease policy, strategy and processes. Administer leases. Provide lease escalation
report in terms of the lease agreement. Liaise with tenants on conditions of the lease
arrangements. Monitor adherence to lease agreements. Provide and advice on terms and
conditions of the contract. Provide rentals: Implement rental policy, strategy and processes.
Provide rental collection in terms of the lease agreement. Advice tenants on the stipulated rental
fees. Provide and analyse PERSAL reports on rental. Facilitate stop order payments. Analyse
and report on stop order (debit order) payments. Monitor cash payments. Reconcile PERSAL
reports against the residential accommodation register. Provide payment of rates, taxes and
services: Implement municipal services policy, strategy and processes. Compile rates and taxes
reports. Inspect property to ensure correct billing in relation to correct land use of property.
Receive invoices on rates, taxes and services. Prepare requisitions for payment of rates, taxes
and services. Facilitate submission of requisitions and invoices to finance for payment. Compile
municipal services expenditure pattern reports. Liaise with municipalities on rates and taxes.
Monitor payments to service providers. Provide refunds and arrears rental recovery: Implement
refunds and arrears policy, strategy and processes. Retrieve reports and identify defaulters.
Make arrangements with defaulters for rental collection. Analyse arrear rental patterns. Analyse
monthly and quarterly reports for arrear rental to be recovered. Investigate and facilitate
98
payment of refunds. Provide resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report
on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of
employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee
motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage discipline. Provide job
description to subordinates. Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/159 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: DEBT MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/9/83
Component: Management Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office-Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6 in Financial Management /Accounting / Commerce. 02-03 years’
experience in Financial Administration and Accounting services. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. BAS certificate / results will be an advantage. SKILLS:
Facilitation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, People management,
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Provide debt management services: Develop and implement policy and procedures related to
debt management, Compile BAS take on debts to enable creation of debts into the financial
system, Provide debt recovery contracts, capturing and journalizing of debts transaction into the
financial system with the correct supporting documents, reconcile monthly debt statements,
recover outstanding amounts to the department, Provide debt register. Update maintain a
debtors database, Receive a route from other directorates. Open individual debtors files after a
debt have been recognised. Update the database, Coordinate the writing off irrecoverable
debts, investigate trend of payment against the contracts, investigate outstanding balance,
generate a submission to write off irrecoverable debts for approval, provided write off or
irrecoverable debts register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/160 : WORKS INSPECTOR: INSPECTORATE SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/2/26
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognised by SAQA in Built environment or N3 and a passed
trade test in Building environment or Registration as an Engineering Technician. Valid driver’s
license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project Management,
Technical analysis, Computer Literacy, Technical report writing, Production, process knowledge
and skills, Problem solving and analysis. Generic Competencies: Job Knowledge,
Communications, Interpersonal relations, Flexibility, Teamwork, Computer literacy, Planning
and Organising, Language, Good verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Render a basic inspection service of work done on minor new and existing structures on a
project basis. This includes: Check if new and/or maintenance work undertaken on project sites
are in compliance with all relevant regulations and legislation. Conduct inspections on work
done, or to be done, to check that proper quality control is maintained. Compile an estimate of
repairs and costs for minor new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Maintain an
electronic record system for work being done and work that was finalised. Develop progress
reports on outstanding and finalised work. Analyse and compile relevant documentation for work
to be done on minor new and existing structures, through inter alia the following: Development
and interpretation of plans and sketches: Draw-up quotation documents and compile
specifications. Participate in the adjudication process and provide recommendations on
quotations. Liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects. Oversee the work
of contractors through inter alia the following: Inspect the work done by contractors to determine
whether it is in compliance with all relevant prescribed standards. Advice and guide contractors
in respect of the relevant legislation and regulations. Compile payment documents. Compile
and process variation orders and requests for the extension of deadlines. Ensure effective
contract administration. Timeous development of reports on problems emanating from projects.
Render extended public works programme: Gather and submit information in terms of the
extended public works programme.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/161 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION REF NO: S.4/3/2/18
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Capricorn District – Molemole Building Maintenance
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills & Knowledge: Technical analysis, Computer aided technical applications,
99
Legal compliance, technical report writing, Technical consulting, Production, knowledge
process and skills.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment’s according to job
specification and recognised standards, Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance:
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications, Service equipment
and/or facilities according to schedule, Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment and
or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and submit reports, Provide
inputs on the compilation of technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other registers,
Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 18/162 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION: MECHANICAL WORKSHOP (X6 POSTS)
Component: Sub- Directorate Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Mopani District - Giyani Ref No: S.4/3/2/86 (X3 Posts)
Tzaneen Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/2/87 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations, Road maintenance Manual,
Health and safety measures.
DUTIES : Repairs: Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment. Receive job card,
Stabilize machine or vehicle, Run the engine until warm, Turn engine off, Drain oil into container,
Re-install the drain plug, Remove filters (oil, fuel & air filter), Examine filter debrits, Install new
filters, Refill oil and check for leaks and level, Test drive. Service: Check the condition of working
area for safety, Determine problem existing, State problem in writing, Visual inspection on
machine/vehicle (for further damage as leaks boos bolts and cracks), Fix the problem and re-
test, Analyse the failure, List all possible causes, Run test and record information, Eliminate and
insolate. Provide mechanical expertise: Carry out services as per service category and
complete standards, doing visual and pre-checks inspection on plant before and after
service/repairs is carried out as well as the compiling of inspection sheet, Making full report of
the findings and completing of job cords after competing any repair or service. Perform per-
inspection for additional defects before repairs: Dismantling, Lay-out, Check condition of warn
out parts, Repair or replace where necessary and assemble, clean the object/part and test it.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs on the compilation of technical
reports, Keep and maintain job record and other registers, Maintain and adhere to agreed
development plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/163 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION: CARPENTRY REF NO: S.4/3/2/46
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Nebo Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Electrical/ Plumbing / Carpentry. Experience will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis.
Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical report writing, Technical
consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies: Problem solving
and analysis, Decision making, Team work, Creativity, Self-Management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment’s according to job
specification and recognised standards. Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance:
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment
and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment and
or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and submit reports. Provide
inputs on the compilation of technical reports. Keep and maintain job record and other registers.
Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan. Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/164 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION: MECHANICAL SERVICES REF NO: S. 4/3/10/105
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District – Lebowakgomo Mechanical Workshop
100
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate as Diesel Mechanic. Experience will be an added advantage.
Valid driver’s License. Knowledge Of: Relevant Acts and regulations. Road maintenance
Manual. Health and safety measures. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis. Computer
aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical report writing, Technical consulting,
Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies: Problem solving and
analysis, Decision making, Teamwork, Creativity, Self-Management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication, Computer skills, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment: Repairs: Receive job card.
Stabilize machine or vehicle. Run the engine until warm. Turn engine off. Drain oil into container.
Re-install the drain plug. Remove filters (oil, fuel & air filter). Examine filter debris. Install new
filters. Refill oil and check for leaks and level. Test drive. Service: Check the condition of working
area for safety. Determine problem existing. State problem in writing. Visual inspection on
machine/ vehicle (for further damage such as leaks boos bolts and cracks). Fix the problem and
re-test. Analyse the failure. List all possible causes. Run test and record information. Eliminate
and insolate. Provide mechanical expertise: Carry out services as per service category and
complete standards. Doing visual and pre-checks inspection on plant before and after
service/repairs is carried out as well as the compiling of inspection sheet. Making full report of
the findings and completing of job cords after competing any repair or service. Perform per-
inspection for additional defects before repairs: Dismantling. Lay-out. Check condition of warn
out parts. Repair or replace where necessary and assemble. Clean the object/part and test it.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs on the compilation of technical
reports. Keep and maintain job record and other registers. Maintain and adhere to agreed
development plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/165 : ROAD WORK FOREMAN REF NO: S.4/3/10/43 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mopani District-Letaba Cost Centre and Regravelling
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 (Matric) as recognised by SAQA. Generic And Techanical
Competencies: Job Knowledge, Communication, Interpersonal relations, Flexibility, Teamwork
Accuracy, Aptitude of Figures, Computer Literacy, Planning and Organisation and Good verbal
and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Support road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of culvert and side drains.
Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer works.
Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching. Road
fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings/signs. Install road signs and barricade the
work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance work through:
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct inspection. Exercise control over
tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate tasks and oversee work performance.
Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/166 : ADMIN CLERK: ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/2/68
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District – Hessie se water
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic knowledge of general administration
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics.
Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of Roads maintenance: Receive documentation for roads
maintenance. Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data in relation
to roads maintenance. Update registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make
photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
document register of the component. Render administration clerical support on office services
and accommodations. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement
of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of
standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of
the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records
in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component. Forward
component leave form to corporate services. Render financial administration support services
in the component: Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to
manager for approval.
101
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 18/167 : ROAD WORK FOREMAN REF NO: S.4/3/10/46
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District – Hessie se water
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Generic And Technical Competencies:
Job Knowledge, Communication, Interpersonal relations, Flexibility, Teamwork Accuracy,
Aptitude of Figures, Computer Literacy, Planning and Organisation and Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Support road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of culvert and side drains.
Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer works.
Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching. Road
fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings/ signs. Install road signs and barricade the
work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance work through:
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct inspection. Exercise control over
tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate tasks and oversee work performance.
Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 18/168 : ADMIN CLERK: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: S4/3/9/85
Component: Finance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic knowledge of supply chain
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Generic And
TECHNICAL Competencies: Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations.
Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer skills. Planning and organising. Language. Good verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide the acquisition of goods and services: Render clerical support. Request for quotation.
Receive quotation. Place order. Issue purchase order. Capture specification on the electronic
purchasing system. Provide supplier database: Update and maintain a supplier (including
contractors) database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar system. Provide bids: Issue bids.
Receive bids. Provide logistical support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion
process. Compile draft documents as required. Provide bids evaluation: Make arrangements for
evaluation of bids and quotations. Captured information for all bids and quotations. Customise
changes on standard evaluation criteria.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/169 : ROAD WORK FOREMAN REF NO: S.4/3/10/44
Component: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Hoeraroep Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid drivers license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations, road
maintenance manual, roads operating machinery, health and safety measures, roads
production procedures and processes.
DUTIES : Support Road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of culvert and side
drains. Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer
works. Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching.
Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings/signs. Install road signs and barricade
the work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance work through:
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct inspection. Exercise control over
tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate tasks and oversee work performance.
Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/170 : ADMIN CLERK: BUILDING MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/2/58
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Thabamoopo Building Maintenance)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of general administration
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
102
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer. Language and good verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of building maintenance: Receive documentation for
building maintenance, Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data
in relation to building maintenance, Update registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries,
Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles, Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required, Keep and maintain the filing system for the component, Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required, Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
document register of the component. Render administration clerical support on office services
and accommodations: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement
of goods and services, Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of
standard office items, Stock control of office stationery, Keep and maintain the asset register of
the component. Render administration clerical support of fleet services: Receive and provide
GG allocation to use during and after normal working hours, Record, organise, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet
management registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component: Maintain a leave register for the
component, Keep and maintain personnel records in the component, Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component, Forward component leave form to corporate services.
Render financial administration support services in the component: Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/171 : ADMIN CLERK: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/8/76
Component: Corporate Support
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of general administration
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer. Language and good verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of fleet services: Receive and provide GG allocation to
use during and after normal working hours, Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet management registers
and statistics, Handle routine enquiries, Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles,
Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required, Keep and maintain the
filing system for the component, Type letters and/or other correspondence when required, Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Render
administration clerical support on office services and accommodations: Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services, Obtain quotations,
complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of office
stationery, Keep and maintain the asset register of the component (district offices). Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component: Maintain a leave
register for the component, Keep and maintain personnel records in the component, Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Render financial administration support
services in the component: Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and
submit to manager for approval, Handle telephone accounts for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/172 : ADMIN CLERK: LEASE AND MUNICIPAL SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/3/114
Component: Property and Facilities Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Job Knowledge. Communications.
Interpersonal. Flexibility. Teamwork. Skills: Computer. Planning and Organising. Good verbal
and written communication.
DUTIES : Administer rental services: Update and issue monthly rental statements. Update the rental
register. Capture and update rental payments system for cash payments. Update register and
statistics. Provide safekeeping of rental documents by: File in the respective files. Folio numbers
the files. Update the refund register. Update the arrear rental register. Write arrear notifications
103
to tenants. Prepare statement of accounts. Render general clerical support services: Record,
organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data. Remove the property from the
Asset Register. Handle routing enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles.
Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the
filling system for the component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component: Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Order office stationery. Keep
and maintain the assets register of the component. Provide personnel and financial
administration support services: Maintain a leave register for the component. Facilitate traveling
and accommodations. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of official.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
POST 18/173 : ROAD WORK FOREMAN: ROAD MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/10/45
Component: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe (Mutale Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid drivers license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations, road
maintenance manual, roads operating machinery, health and safety measures, roads
production procedures and processes.
DUTIES : Support Road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of culvert and side
drains. Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer
works. Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching.
Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings/signs. Install road signs and barricade
the work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance work through:
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct inspection. Exercise control over
tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate tasks and oversee work performance.
Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 18/174 : ADMIN CLERK: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/8/51
Component: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate NQF Level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Basic knowledge of relevant
Public Service.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of fleet services. Receive and provide GG allocation to
use during and after normal working hours. Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management. Update fleet management registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles.
Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the
filing system for the component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Render
administration clerical support on office services and accommodations. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations,
complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office
stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component (district offices). Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Render financial administration support
services in the component. Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness
of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 18/175 : DATA CAPTURER: EPWP REF NO: S4/3/4/15
Component: EPWP
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office- Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA. Skills: Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Capture data from available records into the required formats e.g databases, table,
spreadsheet, verify query missing data and errors observed during data entry, review and
validate all data from the records, submit data, make regular backups of data, update registers
and statistics, Keep and maintain records files, ensure records and files are properly sorted and
secured, provide information to components.
104
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 18/176 : FOREMAN CLEANING AND GROUNDS REF NO: S.4/3/3/59
Component: Property and Facilities
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mopani- Sekgosese Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Machine
Operations. Working procedures in respect of working environment. Basic interpersonal
relationships. Basic literacy. Organizing.
DUTIES : Supervise Cleaners: Perform administrative and related functions. Provide guidance and advice
to cleaners. Develop and update the cleaning roster. Provision and monitor of cleaning services
Oversee: and monitor cleaning of: Offices. Corridors. General kitchen. Restrooms. Elevators.
Boardrooms. Provision and monitor of grounds services: Surroundings. Premises. Manage and
ensure the maintenance and replacement of cleaning materials and equipment: Maintain and
replace cleaning machines and equipment’s. Make a requisition and issue cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/177 : ROADWORKER: ROADS MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/10/31
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District- George Masebe
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Relevant Acts
and regulations. Operation roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of roads environment. Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and
organizing. Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Construction of culvert and side drains, Erect and maintain steel guardrails and gabions,
Construction of road earth and layer works Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting
areas, Surfacing and pothole patching, Road fencing and pipe laying, Setting of road markings
and road studs, Install road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of
road material, Bush clearing and grass cutting
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 18/178 : DRIVER REF NO: S.4/3/2/84
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mopani (Phalaborwa Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Procedures to operate the motor vehicle
e.g procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks, consumables and basic
service. Prescripts for the correct utilisation of the motor vehicle. Procedure to ensure that the
vehicles is maintained properly. Procedures to operate the motor vehicle e.g. procedures to
obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks, consumables and basic services.
DUTIES : Core driver function: Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items (mail and documents). Perform routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects timely. Complete all the required and prescribed records and logs with regard to
the vehicle and the goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/179 : ROAD WORKER (X4 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mopani District:
Drainage Ref No: S.4/3/10/168
Giyani cc Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/132
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/169
Phalaborwa Ref No: S.4/3/10/170
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Relevant Acts
and regulations. Operation roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of roads environment. Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and
organizing. Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Construction of culvert and side drains, Erect and maintain steel guardrails and gabions,
Construction of road earth and layer works Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting
areas, Surfacing and pothole patching, Road fencing and pipe laying, Setting of road markings
and road studs, Install road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of
road material, Bush clearing and grass cutting.
105
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075,
POST 18/180 : TRADESMAN AID: BUILDING MAINTENANCE (X3 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District:
Modimolle Ref No: S.4/3/2/65 (X1 Post)
Mokopane Ref No: S.4/3/2/89 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Cleaning
equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in respect of working
environment. Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Maintenance of office buildings: Conduct regular building inspections. Attend to minor electrical,
plumbing, plastering and carpentry problems. Maintenance of office equipment’s and furniture:
Repair broken furniture and equipment’s. Report defects. Safe keeping of machinery and
equipment’s: Clean equipment’s and machinery after use, report faults.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 18/181 : DRIVER OPERATOR REF NO: S.4/3/10/171
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District (Thabazimbi)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid Driver’s Code EC with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Operating certificate (Grader Operator). Generic
Competencies: Communication, ability to read and write, good eyesight and Teamwork.
Technical Competencies: Operation of the equipment, physical inspection of vehicles and
interpret instructions for proper use of all controls for safe operation of vehicles and interpret
and follow operating manuals, maintenance manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized equipment. Load and
offload goods/equipment. Inspection and maintenance of equipment and report defects. Keep
log sheets of vehicles and machinery. Application of safety and precautionary measures.
Cleaning and lubrication of machinery / equipment. Grading of gravel roads re-
gravelling/shoulder maintenance. Render driving services. Render driving services perform
activities in respect of operation through inter alia the following: Transportation of work teams
and materials/equipment’s. Detect and repair minor mechanical problems on the vehicles and
take steps to have it repaired (check level and conditions of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection
of the vehicles/ equipment and report defects. Complete vehicles logbook, trip authorization for
the vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 18/182 : TRADESMAN AID REF NO: S.4/3/10/167 (X5 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (Polokwane Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Cleaning
equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in respect of working
environment. Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Maintenance of office buildings: Conduct regular building inspections. Attend to minor electrical,
plumbing, plastering and carpentry problems. Maintenance of office equipment’s and furniture:
Repair broken furniture and equipment’s: Report defects. Safe keeping of machinery and
equipment’s: Clean equipment’s and machinery after use. Report faults.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600.
POST 18/183 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: S.4/3/10/153
Component: Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE Capricorn District (Matlala Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Relevant Acts
and regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of roads environment. Acts and regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and
safety measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Decision making.
Creativity. Communication. Planning and organising. Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of road maintenance and/or construction through:
Construction of culvert and side drains, Erect and maintain steel guardrails and gabions,
Construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting
106
areas, Surfacing and pothole patching, Road fencing and pipe laying, Setting of road markings
and road studs, Install road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of
road material, Bush clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600.
POST 18/184 : TRADESMAN AID: BUILDING MAINTENANCE
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District:
Nebo Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/63
Thabamoopo Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/62
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Cleaning
equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in respect of working
environment. Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Maintenance of office buildings: Conduct regular building inspections. Attend to minor electrical,
plumbing, plastering and carpentry problems. Maintenance of office equipment’s and furniture:
Repair broken furniture and equipment’s. Report defects. Safe keeping of machinery and
equipment’s: Clean equipment’s and machinery after use, report faults.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
POST 18/185 : DRIVER OPERATOR: ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE (REGRAVELLING)
REF NO: S.4/3/10/60
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Roads Maintenance Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Driver’s license Code EC and operating
certificate (for heavy duty vehicles). Skills And Knowledge: Relevant Acts and regulations.
Operating roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in respect of
roads environment. Skills: Communication, Ability to read and write, Teamwork, Operation of
the equipment, Physical inspection of vehicles and interpret instructions for proper use of all
controls for safe operation of vehicles. Interpret and follow operating manuals, maintenance
manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized equipment. Load and
offload goods/equipment. Inspection and maintenance of equipment and report defects. Keep
log sheets of vehicles and machineries. Application of safety and precautionary measures.
Cleaning and lubrication of machinery/equipment. Grading of gravel roads re-graveling/shoulder
maintenance. Render driving services. Render driving services Perform activities in respect of
operation through inter alia the following: Transportation of work teams and
materials/equipments. Detect and repair minor mechanical problems on the vehicles and take
steps to have it repaired (check level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection of
the vehicles/equipment and report defects. Complete vehicle logbook, trip authorization for the
vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/186 : DRIVER OPERATOR: (REGRAVELLING) REF NO: S.4/3/10/59
Component: Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE Capricorn District:
Regraveling (X1 Post)
Dendron (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Driver’s
license Code EC and operating certificate. Skills And Knowledge: Relevant Acts and
regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in
respect of roads environment. Skills: Communication, Ability to read and write, Teamwork,
Operation of the equipment, Physical inspection of vehicles and interpret instructions for proper
use of all controls for safe operation of vehicles. Interpret and follow operating manuals,
maintenance manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized equipment. Load and
offload goods/equipment. Inspection and maintenance of equipment and report defects. Keep
log sheets of vehicles and machineries. Application of safety and precautionary measures.
Cleaning and lubrication of machinery/equipment. Grading of gravel roads re-graveling/shoulder
maintenance. Render driving services. Render driving services Perform activities in respect of
operation through inter alia the following: Transportation of work teams and
materials/equipments. Detect and repair minor civil problems on the vehicles and take steps to
have it repaired (check level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection of the
vehicles/equipment and report defects. Complete vehicle logbook, trip authorization for the
vehicle.
107
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 18/187 : ROAD WORKER: ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District:
Mecklenburg Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/172 (X2 Posts)
Groblersdal Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/173
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Core And Process Competencies:
Knowledge of: Relevant Acts and regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Acts and regulations.
Operating roads machinery. Health and safety measures. Working procedures in respect of
roads environment. Skills: Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and
organising. Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of road maintenance and/or construction through:
Construction of culvert and side drains. Erect and maintain steel guardrails and gabions.
Construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting
areas. Surfacing and pothole patching. Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings
and road studs. Install road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area. Crushing of
road material. Bush clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 18/188 : GROUNDSMAN: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES
Component: Property and Facilities
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Facilities Services) Ref No: S.4/3/3/99 (X2 Posts)
Mopani- Giyani Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/95
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Core And Process Competencies:
Knowledge of: Cleaning equipment and safety. Health and safety measures. Working
procedures in respect of working environment. Skills: Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal
relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: Clean premises and surroundings. Empty dirty bins.
Maintain the garden: Watering the garden. Prune and trim flowers and trees. Mow the grass.
Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers.
Maintain gardening equipments and tools: Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipments and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipments and tools. Keep gardening
materials and equipment: Cleaning of machines and equipment’s after use. Request gardening
materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 18/189 : CLEANER: FACILITY AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/3/100 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Property and Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani Cost Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 02 as recognised by SAQA.
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services: Office corridors, elevators and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing
office furniture, sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floor, vacuum and shampooing floors,
Cleaning walls, windows and doors, emptying and cleaning of dirty bins, collect and removing
of waste papers, freshen the office areas, Provide cleaning services: kitchen and restrooms by
, clean basins, wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils, Provide cleaning services in restrooms,
Refill hand wash liquid soap, re-place toilet papers, hand towels and refresheners, Empty and
wash waste bins, Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment, Report broken cleaning
machines and equipment’s, cleaning of machines( microwares, vacuum cleaners etc.) and
equipment’s after use, request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mashele, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
108
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Mpumalanga Department of Co-Operative Governance, Human Settlements & Traditional Affairs is an equal
opportunity department and the Department’s intention is to promote equity through the filling of this post.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted to: The Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional
Affairs, Private Bag X11328, Mbombela, 1200. Or Email to: Coghstarecruitment@mpg.gov.za
Hand delivered to: Rhino Building extension 2 No.7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park,
Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service
Department accompanied by recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only, to be considered.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of all qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department Co-operative Governance, Human
Settlements and Traditional Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the Department’s Equity Plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Short-listed candidates will
be subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous
employment (reference checks); Qualification verification and Pre-Entry Assessment as well as
Competency Assessment. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 18/190 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A (ELECTRICAL) REF NO: COGHSTA/01
24 Months Contract
(Municipal Infrastructure)
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive MMS package
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a National Diploma/BTech / Bachelor’s Degree in Electrical Engineering
or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ experience within the infrastructure planning
and development environment. Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa as a
Professional Engineer. A valid Driver’s License Skills and Competencies: Good interpersonal
relations, Presentation and facilitation skills. Competent in Strategic Management and
Leadership Capabilities, Financial Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving
and Analytical skills, People Management and Stakeholder Management, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Honest and Integrity. Knowledge of Project and Programme Monitoring.
Knowledge of infrastructure development and programme management. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Good communication skills (verbal and written) Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in evaluating business plans and technical reports for the proposed
electrification projects. Support municipalities and facilitate municipal energy infrastructure
development. Monitor and support municipalities with implementation of electrification
programme. Ensure the management of infrastructure finance. Co-ordinate energy services
planning. Provide technical support with development and implementation of energy plans,
legislative frameworks and strategies. Support municipalities with coordination of electricity
infrastructure projects. Assess the functionality of electricity infrastructure and address areas of
intervention. Conduct site visits/meetings to ensure compliance with business plans conditions.
Provide monthly and quarterly performance reports on infrastructure related.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013) 766 6543
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and disability through
the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment will promote equitable
representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting reference number should
be addressed to the Head: Economic Development and Tourism. Applications can be hand
delivered to Nokuthula Simelane Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 02, Mbombela, 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective
email address provided for each post. Email to recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025 @ 16h00
109
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431) as prescribed
with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed, initialled and dated. The form is
obtainable at any National or Provincial Department(s),
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must indicate the Post, Reference
Number on the Z83 Form application. The new Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recent
updated curriculum vitae with full personal details, experience, including three (3) names of
contactable referees and it is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications
evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted).
DPSA Circular 3 of 2025 paragraph 2.1.5 states that Part E, F and G: Noting that there is limited
space provided applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae or see as attached”, this is
acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be disqualified. The question related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered if you are not currently
employed in the public service. Applications received after closing date will not be accepted.
Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified documents on or
before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of candidate(s) to be available for interview
process on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s)
will be required to undergo personal suitability checks, which include criminal records,
citizenship, financial credits/assets, qualifications verification and previous employment
background/reference checks will be verified. Candidates will be subject to security screening
and vetting. Candidates on MMS posts will be subjected to a competence assessment.
Applicants must disclose if /he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any
business with Organ of State and whether is performing any additional remunerative work
outside his/her normal duties. The successful candidate will enter into an Annual Performance
Agreement, and annually disclose his/her financial interest. If you have not been contacted
within three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening process,
which includes criminal records, and verification of educational qualification certificates.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the relevant person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only.
OTHER POST
POST 18/191 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REF NO: DEDT 2024/25/28
Re-advertised and applicants who applied previously are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF 7 tertiary qualification in Economics, post graduate
qualification in Economics will be an advantage, with at least two (2) to three (03) years relevant
work experience as economist/economic researcher. Practical knowledge and experience in
economic research. Demonstrate good knowledge and work experience in the application of
quantitative and qualitative research methodologies, as well as research report writing.
Advanced competency in computer skills (especially MS Word, Excel and Power Point), as well
as very good written and verbal/presentation communication skills. Good planning, organizing,
leadership, teamwork, project management, problem solving and decision making skills.
Knowledge of relevant government legislation such as the Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury regulations, Basic Accounting
System, Government Budget Processes, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, good governance and Batho Pele principles. The successful candidate must be able to
display the following competencies: strong analytical capabilities report writing, leadership,
programme and project management, financial management, service delivery innovation,
problem solving and analysis, people management and empowerment, client orientation,
communication, honesty and integrity, advanced computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist to conduct socio-economic research to inform the provincial planning, policy and Budget
processes and thereby contributing to an inclusive, diversified and growing economy. Assist to
conduct and co-ordinate economic research to analyse, amongst others, the impact of
economic developments and economic policy on the provincial economy, the performance of
various economic industries in Mpumalanga and the state of various provincial socio-economic
indicators. Assist to compile and manage socio-economic data/information of municipalities in
the province through profiling, research reports, forums and consultations. Participate in
economic research planning and identification of relevant research topics, in line with the
mandate of the Department. Render an economic analysis service and advice to relevant
stakeholders, building partnerships; participate in research forums and co-ordination in the
province. Disseminate economic data/information and research findings to relevant decision-
making forums and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
110
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose transfer /
promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid disappointments. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application
but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration
burden on HR Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from
shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the interview
following communication from the relevant HR section of the Department. All health/engineering
posts that are advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please ensure that you
clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post Reference Number on your
application. No fax applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully
complete and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned
applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the Department reserves the
right to withdraw any post at any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the
qualifications of every recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment.
All short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment. If no
response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90 days after the
closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that their application was not
successful. Please quote the CORRECT references when applying and where possible the
station / centre where the post is. www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be
accepted. NB: Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The Department reserves
the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of
the department will be well served. (People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications)
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 13
of 2025 dated 11 April 2025, the posts of Clinical Nurse Practitioner Grade 1 (PN-B1): PHC
(Mangweni Clinic and Nkomazi Su-district, Ehlanzeni District) with Ref No: MPDoH/Apr/25/27
with the closing date of 30 April 2025 and in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 16
May 2025, the posts of an Assistant Manager Nursing (PN-B4): Advanced Midwifery (DCST)
(Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela and Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo) (X2 Posts) with
Ref No: MPDoH/May/25/103 and the post of Clinical Nurse Practitioner Grade 1 (PN-B1): PHC
(Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo) with Ref No: MPDoH/May/25/106 with the closing date of
30 May 2025, has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/192 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: FAMILY PHYSICIAN (DCST) REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/95 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District and Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine (2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid
work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Specialist
in Family Medicine. At least one (1) year experience in District Health Services / District Hospital
will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competencies Required: Own clinical discipline. Relevant legislation, regulations, and
policies. Quality assurance and improvement programmes. Programme planning, and
evaluation. Information management, Human resources, and financial management.
Leadership. Communication, Problem solving, Computer literacy, Stress tolerance. Self-
confidence. Objective. Ethical. Emphatic.
DUTIES : General: Represent own specialist discipline as a member of District Clinical Specialist Team
responsible for the delivery of quality health care for mothers, new-borns, and children at all
levels within the health district. Promote equitable access to an appropriate level of care for all
mothers, new-borns throughout the district. Maintain personal competency in own clinical
discipline whilst ensuring that no more than 10- 20% of time is spent on clinical care at the
regional or tertiary hospital. At least 80% of time to be spent on activities within the district.
Coordination of quality, regular and reliable medical services in the PHC clinics and Community
Health Centre for the Health District. Support Service Delivery: Support clinics in local regional
111
and tertiary hospitals with all facilities through supporting outreach programmes and
development, dissemination or implementation of clinical protocols and standard treatment
guidelines aligned with national norms and standards. Provide Education and Training:
Facilitate and participate in the development, training and mentorship under post-graduate
medical, nursing and allied health professionals; this may require involvement with local
academic. Work with the district management team to establish and maintain systems including
surveillance, health information communication and referral guidelines and process to support
the delivery of services. Provide support ensure appropriate infrastructure equipment resources
and sundries for the provision of quality clinical care. Monitor and Evaluate Services: Initiate
support and participate in rick management activities for patients (e.g. critical event analysis
morbidity and mortality meetings) practitioner (e.g. infections control) and the organization
(performance reviews). Implement effective monitoring and evaluation processes, effective use
of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and health outcomes. Initiate support and
participation in relevant research. Foster effective community and relevant non- government
organizations. Facilitate and ensure effective communication with all management structures
within the district, the regional and tertiary hospitals as relevant as well as the provincial
Department of Health. Submit regular reports on activities, health services and programmes.
Support Organisational Activities: Assist with strategic and operational and supervision of
planning services with the district and or catchment area of the regional.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/193 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY (DCST)
REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/96
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (2025). Valid driver’s
licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of
five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as a Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. At least one (1) year experience in District Health
Services / District Hospital will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Own clinical discipline.
Relevant legislation, regulations, and policies. Quality assurance and improvement
programmes. Programme planning, and evaluation. Information management, Human
resources, and financial management. Leadership. Communication, Problem solving,
Computer literacy, Stress tolerance. Self-confidence. Objective. Ethical. Emphatic.
DUTIES : General: Represent own specialist discipline as a member of District Clinical Specialist Team
responsible for the delivery of quality health care for mothers, new-borns, and children at all
levels within the health district. Promote equitable access to an appropriate level of care for all
mothers, new-borns throughout the district. Maintain personal competency in own clinical
discipline whilst ensuring that no more than 10- 20% of time is spent on clinical care at the
regional or tertiary hospital. At least 80% of time to be spent on activities within the district.
Coordination of quality, regular and reliable medical services in the PHC clinics and Community
Health Centre for the Health District. Support Service Delivery: Support clinics in local regional
and tertiary hospitals with all facilities through supporting outreach programmes and
development, dissemination or implementation of clinical protocols and standard treatment
guidelines aligned with national norms and standards. Provide Education and Training:
Facilitate and participate in the development, training and mentorship under post-graduate
medical, nursing and allied health professionals; this may require involvement with local
academic. Work with the district management team to establish and maintain systems including
surveillance, health information communication and referral guidelines and process to support
the delivery of services. Provide support ensure appropriate infrastructure equipment resources
and sundries for the provision of quality clinical care. Monitor and Evaluate Services: Initiate
support and participate in rick management activities for patients (e.g. critical event analysis
morbidity and mortality meetings) practitioner (e.g. infections control) and the organization
(performance reviews). Implement effective monitoring and evaluation processes, effective use
of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and health outcomes. Initiate support and
participation in relevant research. Foster effective community and relevant non- government
organizations. Facilitate and ensure effective communication with all management structures
within the district, the regional and tertiary hospitals as relevant as well as the provincial
Department of Health. Submit regular reports on activities, health services and programmes.
Support Organisational Activities: Assist with strategic and operational and supervision of
planning services with the district and or catchment area of the regional.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
112
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/194 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: PAEDIATRICIAN / CHILD HEALTH (DCST)
REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/97
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric / Child Health (2025). Valid driver’s licence.
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5)
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. At least one (1) year experience in District Health
Services / District Hospital will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Own clinical discipline.
Relevant legislation, regulations, and policies. Quality assurance and improvement
programmes. Programme planning, and evaluation. Information management, Human
resources, and financial management. Leadership. Communication, Problem solving,
Computer literacy, Stress tolerance. Self-confidence. Objective. Ethical. Emphatic.
DUTIES : General: Represent own specialist discipline as a member of District Clinical Specialist Team
responsible for the delivery of quality health care for mothers, newborns, and children at all
levels within the health district. Promote equitable access to an appropriate level of care for all
mothers, new-borns throughout the district. Maintain personal competency in own clinical
discipline whilst ensuring that no more than 10- 20% of time is spent on clinical care at the
regional or tertiary hospital. At least 80% of time to be spent on activities within the district.
Coordination of quality, regular and reliable medical services in the PHC clinics and Community
Health Centre for the Health District. Support Service Delivery: Support clinics in local regional
and tertiary hospitals with all facilities through supporting outreach programmes and
development, dissemination or implementation of clinical protocols and standard treatment
guidelines aligned with national norms and standards. Provide Education and Training:
Facilitate and participate in the development, training and mentorship under post-graduate
medical, nursing and allied health professionals; this may require involvement with local
academic. Work with the district management team to establish and maintain systems including
surveillance, health information communication and referral guidelines and process to support
the delivery of services. Provide support ensure appropriate infrastructure equipment resources
and sundries for the provision of quality clinical care. Monitor and Evaluate Services: Initiate
support and participate in rick management activities for patients (e.g. critical event analysis
morbidity and mortality meetings) practitioner (e.g. infections control) and the organization
(performance reviews). Implement effective monitoring and evaluation processes, effective use
of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and health outcomes. Initiate support and
participation in relevant research. Foster effective community and relevant non- government
organizations. Facilitate and ensure effective communication with all management structures
within the district, the regional and tertiary hospitals as relevant as well as the provincial
Department of Health. Submit regular reports on activities, health services and programmes.
Support Organisational Activities: Assist with strategic and operational and supervision of
planning services with the district and or catchment area of the regional.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/195 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY (DCST) REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/99 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District and Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in terms of
Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in
Health Sciences, preferably in Public Health. A minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in management
level of Advance Midwifery. Post basic qualifications in Advance Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science, Diploma / Degree in Nursing Education and Administration will be an
advantage. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery.
Ability to plan and organise own work. Knowledge of MCWYH, CARMMA, PMTCT and ESMOE
programmes Be able to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Be part of the District Clinical Specialist Team responsible for the delivery of quality health care
for mothers, new-born, and children at all levels within the district. Promote equitable access to
an appropriate level of care for all mothers, new-borns, and children within the district. Promote
113
clinical effectiveness in all health facilities by supporting outreach programs, development,
dissemination and implementation of clinical policies and standard treatment guidelines aligned
with National norms and standards. Facilitate and participate in the development training and
mentorship of health professionals in all health facilities within the district. Work with the District
Management team to establish and maintain systems including surveillance, health information,
communication and referral guidelines and processes to support the delivery of services. assist,
support and participate in risk management activities for patients (e.g., Critical event analysis,
morbidity and mortality meetings) for organisation (e.g. District Performance Reviews) Support
of facilities on implementation of Maternal and Women’s Health services. Participate in training
and mentoring on programme related activities (Basic Antenatal Care plus model, Contraceptive
and Fertility Planning; PMTCT). Implement effective monitoring and evaluation processes,
effective use of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and outcomes Foster effective
teamwork and collaboration within the district specialist team and with other professionals in the
district involved in the delivery of Primary Health Care. Participate in the development of clinical
record audit tools in line with current policies and Office of the Health Standards Compliance
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/196 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): PHC (DCST) REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/100
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in terms of
Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in
Health Sciences, preferably in Public Health. A minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in management
level of Primary Health Care. Post basic qualifications in Primary Health Care, Diploma/Degree
in Nursing Education and Administration will be an advantage. Demonstrate basic computer
literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery. Knowledge of MCWH, CARMMA, PMTCT
and ESMOE programmes Ability to plan and organise own work. Be able to work under
pressure. Current South African Nursing Council receipt – license to practice (2025). Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Be part of the District Clinical Specialist Team responsible for the delivery of quality health care
for mothers, new-born, and children at all levels within the district. Promote equitable access to
an appropriate level of care for all mothers, new-borns, and children within the district. Promote
clinical effectiveness in all health facilities by supporting outreach programs, development,
dissemination and implementation of clinical policies and standard treatment guidelines aligned
with National norms and standards. Facilitate and participate in the development training and
mentorship of health professionals in all health facilities within the district. Work with the District
Management team to establish and maintain systems including surveillance, health information,
communication and referral guidelines and processes to support the delivery of services. assist,
support and participate in risk management activities for patients (e.g., Critical event analysis,
morbidity, and mortality meetings) for organisation (e.g., District Performance Reviews) Support
of facilities on implementation of Maternal and Women’s Health services. Participate in training
and mentoring on programme related activities (Basic Antenatal Care plus model, Contraceptive
and Fertility Planning; PMTCT). Implement effective monitoring and evaluation processes,
effective use of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and outcomes Foster effective
teamwork and collaboration within the district specialist team and with other professionals in the
district involved in the delivery of Primary Health Care. Participate in the development of clinical
record audit tools in line with current policies and Office of the Health Standards Compliance
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/197 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): CHILD HEALTH (DCST) REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/101
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District and Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in terms of
Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in
Health Sciences, preferably in Public Health. A minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in management
114
level of Child Health Services. Post basic qualifications in Child health, Diploma/Degree in
Nursing Education and Administration will be an advantage. Demonstrate basic computer
literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery. Knowledge of MCWH, CARMMA, PMTCT
and ESMOE programmes Ability to plan and organise own work. Be able to work under
pressure. Current South African Nursing Council receipt – license to practice (2025). Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Be part of the District Clinical Specialist Team responsible for the delivery of quality health care
for mothers, new-born, and children at all levels within the district. Promote equitable access to
an appropriate level of care for all mothers, new-borns, and children within the district. Promote
clinical effectiveness in all health facilities by supporting outreach programs, development,
dissemination and implementation of clinical policies nd standard treatment guidelines aligned
with National norms and standards. Facilitate and participate in the development training and
mentorship of health professionals in all health facilities within the district. Work with the District
Management team to establish and maintain systems including surveillance, health information,
communication and referral guidelines and processes to support the delivery of services. assist,
support and participate in risk management activities for patients (e.g., Critical event analysis,
morbidity, and mortality meetings) for organisation (e.g., District Performance Reviews) Support
of facilities on implementation of Child Health services. Primary support districts hospitals in the
provision of paediatric and child health services Participate in training and mentoring on
programme related activities IMCI; ETAT; PMTCT). Implement effective monitoring and
evaluation processes, effective use of data and appropriate reporting on outputs and outcomes
Foster effective teamwork and collaboration within the district specialist team and with other
professionals in the district involved in the delivery of Primary Health Care. Participate in the
development of clinical record audit tools in line with current policies and Office of the Health
Standards Compliance requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/198 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/102
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public
Administration or Public Management as recognized by SAQA. At least three (3) years’
experience in corporate services of which three (3) years must be at management level (ASD)
or equivalent position. Experience in health and hospital environment will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of Human Resources, Administrative support services, sound financial
management, facility management and supervision. Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work
extra hours and be on standby when need arises. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good
written and communication skills. Good planning and organizational skills. Knowledge of the
PFMA / Labour Relations and other relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal, problem – solving
and dispute resolution, communication, analytical and writing skills. Ability to work under
pressure with minimum supervision. Ability to conduct seminars or workshops and presentation
of budget. Strong leadership, managerial, organisational, strategic, operational and contingency
planning skills. Independent decision-making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations 2001, Public Service Act 1994, Employment
Equity Act 55 of 1998, Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other related prescripts of the
Department of Health.
DUTIES : Overall management of hospital administration includes facility management and security.
Efficient and effective implement the Departmental strategic planning of the corporate services.
Management of personnel administration, human resource development and training,
disciplinary procedures, labour relations, recruitment and selection processes and staff
performance assessment. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees maintenance
requirements. Support the Medical Manager and management team. Effectively and efficiently
run the Corporate Services within the hospital and give full support to other services and
programmes within the Hospital. Ensure high level of administration and improve cleanliness
within the hospital environment. Promotion of equity when it comes to resource distribution to
ensure that the targets are achieved. Effectively manage and develop human resources,
including sound employment relations. Support Employee Assistance Programme,
departmental health information and communication technology functions in the district /
hospital. Exercise and regulation, control over institutional activities. Monitor implementation of
the plans. Represent the district / hospital in various forums at the district level and report to
senior structures of the department. Provide subordinates with the overall policy framework and
provide strategic leadership. Develop and maintain constructive working relationships within
administration and support and other Professional structures. Monitor and ensure proper
utilisation of financial and physical resources. Be responsible for the supervision and evaluation
of the staff performance. Manage the office budget. Coordinate proper staffing of hospital.
115
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/199 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MALARIA CONTROL PROGRAMME REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/103
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification
(NQF Level 7) in Environmental Health as recognised by SAQA that allows registration with the
HPCSA as an Independent Environmental Health Practitioner (2025). Master’s in public health
(MPH) will add an advantage. At least 5-10 years’ experience as an Independent Environmental
Health Practitioner. Extensive experience in malaria management and control, disease
surveillance, epidemiology, outbreak management, vector control, and clear demonstration for
monitoring and evaluation. The ability to coordinate, collaborate a multi-disciplinary and
multisectoral structures. Good communication skills and computer literacy. Valid driver’s
licence. Must be registered with the HPCSA as an Independent Environmental Health
Practitioner. Must have strategic capability, Management, and leadership. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management skills. Change and knowledge management
skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and empowerment. Contract
management skills. Able to work independently and under pressure. Understanding legislative
frameworks and related policies in the health public sector and other prescripts.
DUTIES : Facilitate implementation of national and provincial policies and guidelines. Develop, implement,
and monitor policies, guidelines, norms, and standards in line with the relevant National
Department of Health and World Health Organisation Integrated Vector Control Management
guidelines and the monitoring of insecticide usage. Oversee human resources, financial
management and materials of the programme. Develop operational plan, micro plan and
business plans for the malaria programme. Managing finance according to DORA and PFMA.
Planning for the malaria control programme, which includes finance, Human resources and
operational plans. Plan and monitor the seasonal Indoor Residual Spraying Programme.
Facilitate and support parasite and insecticide resistance to inform operations and as an early
warning system for the province. Identify areas that are at risk of transmission due to the
presence of vectors and parasites and continue monitoring in low-risk areas. Facilitate and
monitor spray quality during the spray season. Plan and implement vector control logistics
during the malaria season and outbreak. Plan for community engagement, health promotion,
and malaria messaging. Map breeding sites and inform larvicide operations. Stock control of
insecticides and management of information being captured on the Malaria Information System.
Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures with particular
reference to malaria vector research; identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions for
malaria vector research needs; continuous professional development to keep abreast with new
technologies and procedures; conduct applied research to generate information and knowledge
aimed at developing appropriate technology to address malaria vectors and parasites;
dissemination of information to different stakeholders. Able to identify and engage other key
stakeholders for malaria control. Working closer with partners and cross border forums.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/200 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PB-B4): MOTHER, CHILD, WOMEN, YOUTH AND
HEALTH (MCWYH) REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/104
SALARY : R755 355 - R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing)
Postgraduate Diploma in Nursing Management / Postgraduate Diploma in Public Health /
Diploma in Optical Services / Degree in Optometry / Degree in Medicine. Masters in any of the
above-mentioned qualifications will be an added advantage or equivalent qualification that that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse
(2025). A post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in Paediatric / Child Care / PHC / Advanced Midwifery. A minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with
the SANC in general nursing. At least six (6) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate / recognisable experience in the Specific Specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-
basic qualification in the relevant specialty. At least three (3) years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate / recognisable experience at management level. The ability to
coordinate multi-disciplinary and sectoral activities. Knowledge and understanding of the District
Health System, including District Hospitals, and Community Based Health Services. Good
knowledge of policies on public health services and communicable disease strategies.
Knowledge and experience of financial and human resource management applicable to the
116
public service. Proven experience in the provision and management of ophthalmic services.
Knowledge and understanding of the department of health Mpumalanga Comprehensive
Service Plan. Must have a valid driver’s license. Computer literacy (word, excel, PowerPoint,
Microsoft teams: zoom). Must be proactive, innovative and an independent team leader. Able
to participate in continuous professional development activities. Skills: Strong analytical skills
and extensive experience in Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of Programs. Report writing,
good communication skills (Verbal and written). Program and project management skills.
Financial management skills. Change and knowledge management skills. Problem-solving and
analysis skills. People management and empowerment. Contract management skills. Able to
work independently and under pressure. Ability to work within a multidisciplinary team to ensure
holistic care. Understanding legislative frameworks and related policies in the health public
sector and other prescripts. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To coordinate and support the implementation of Mother, Child, Women, Youth and Health
(MCWYH) Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of Maternal and Child
Health Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the Integrated Nutrition
Programme. Ensure the implementation of national and provincial policies. Facilitate the
provision of adequate woman, and youth health care services. Facilitate the provision of
adequate and safe maternal and child health care services. Facilitate the improvement of
standards of health care for women and youth. Facilitate the improvement of standards of health
care for maternal and child health. Render advice and technical support services to the district.
Monitor and evaluate the impact of implementation of policies and guidelines. Coordinate the
implementation of National and Provincial INP policies and guidelines. Plan and coordinate INP
Services. Monitor and evaluate INP Services. Coordinate the implementation of poverty
alleviation projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/201 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): TB REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/105
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Steve Tshwete Sub-District (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025).
A minimum of seven (7) years appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to work in a team as well as
independently. Extensive Knowledge and understanding of Primary Health Systems, Key
policies and National Health Programmes including HIV and AIDS STIs, DS-TB, DR-TB and
relevant government policies and prescripts. Experience in TB and Ototoxicity management will
be an added advantage. Professional competence and knowledge of the TB data collecting
tools, EDR web and Tier.Net (TB module in Tier). Excellent written and verbal communication.
Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict management and time management skills.
Willingness to travel and work overtime, when required. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : the implementation of policies, National Guidelines and Treatment protocols for the prevention,
identification and management of TB disease in Health care facilities and in the Community.
Plan and coordinate all TB, TB and HIV management and TB Data management capacity
building activities within the sub-district. Oversee implementation of the TB Control Programme
in the sub-district in line with the National Guidelines and Protocols. Provide support to all
facilities to implement TB Control Guidelines correctly. Monitoring and evaluation of programme
performance and outcomes through data management and oversight electronic reporting
systems i.e. TB Phase 6 in Tier .net and the Electronic DR-TB Register (EDRweb). Facilitate
the implementation of the National strategy for finding the missing TB patients. Coordinate
laboratory services and communication with the laboratories. Conduct supervisory support visits
to health facilities, NGOs laboratory services, private health care facilities, mining industry to
provide guidance and exercise oversight in TB management. Collect and validate TB
performance data from facilities and private sector health care services (mines, DCS etc).
Support health care facilities to obtain the necessary supplies for diagnosis and treatment of TB
at all times. Support facilities to implement and sustain TB and HIV integration service. Facilitate
collaboration with all Stakeholders within the district in the provision of quality TB management
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/202 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/106
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ndindindi Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
117
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited with
the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in General Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwifery (2025), a post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care Science.
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Recommendations: Ability to function independently and
to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care services in the Primary
Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources. Provide quality
patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality improvement programs.
Supervise and implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional
and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according
to protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences.
Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/203 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL REPORTING REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/107
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Finance / Asset Management, Logistics / Fleet management / Financial Management /
Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’
relevant experience of which three (3) years’ experience must be supervisory / managerial (level
7/8). Key Competencies: Computer literacy MS office; Sound knowledge of administration;
Good interpersonal relations, communication, verbal and written skills; Problem solving; Ability
to work under pressure and work independently; Teamwork; Knowledge of PFMA; Logical and
innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Prepare monthly, quarterly, and annual financial statements, ensuring they are accurate and
comply with relevant accounting standards such as GRAP, MCS and the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Ensure timely dissemination of financial statements to relevant
stakeholders, providing clear explanations and addressing any queries regarding the reports.
Prepare and submit IYM reports, ensuring alignment with the Estimates of National Expenditure
(ENE) and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). Compile and submit In-Year
Monitoring reports to senior management. Prepare and submit IYM presentations to senior
management, stakeholders, and relevant committees, providing clear explanations and
facilitating discussions on financial performance and corrective actions. Regularly review
financial transactions to detect any misallocations or errors in posting. Initiate and process
journal entries to correct misallocations, ensuring that all adjustments are properly documented
and supported by appropriate evidence. Keep detailed records of all corrections made. Manage
the annual audit process by liaising with internal and external auditors, addressing audit queries,
and ensuring timely resolution. Supervise and mentor a team of financial reporting staff,
providing guidance and support in daily operations. Conduct performance evaluations and
identify training needs to enhance team capabilities. Ensure staff compliance with departmental
and governmental financial regulations and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/204 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK PERFORMANCE AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/108
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Diploma / Degree in Finance /
Supply Chain Management/ Logistic Management/ Public Administration / Public Management
/ Commerce/ Business Management / Accounting / Auditing with at least three (3) years’
118
experience in Risk Performance and Contract Management. A valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage. Key Competencies: Computer literacy MS office; Sound knowledge of
administration; Good interpersonal relations, communication, verbal and written skills; Problem
solving; Ability to work under pressure and work independently; Teamwork; Knowledge of
PFMA; Logical and innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. Understanding of modified
cash standard (mcs). Public service transformation and management issue. White paper on
transformation of public service. Public service Act. public service regulations and relevant
prescripts. Departmental policies and procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Labour relations and
collective bargaining systems. Minimum information security standards. Skills: Administration
and financial management. self– management. Budgeting and financial management. customer
focus and responsiveness. Development others. Planning and organizing, decision- making,
project management. Team leadership, managing Interpersonal conflict. Impact and influence.
computer literacy diversity management.
DUTIES : Giving inputs in the development of operational plan, policies and procedure. Giving inputs on
development of Service Level Agreement. Maintain a database of all contracts. Monitoring
Departmental and Transversal contracts. Liaising with Legal section on regular basis regarding
contracts. To ensure contracts are closed, extensions of contracts or renewal of contracts.
Ensure that signed contracts are communicated to all relevant parties to provide contract
awareness, interpretations to support implementation. To ensure that contracts are properly
enforced. Ensure compliance to PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury regulations and SCM policy
framework. Render support in ensuring compliance assessment report writing. Compiling of
monthly, quarterly and yearly reports. Assisting the department in monitoring the performance
of the contractors, compliance and renewal application Assist with audit coordination for SCMU
during Internal audits and external audits (AG). Providing training or workshops on contract
management to institutions and provincial offices when the need arises. Liaise with Clients.
Responsible for staff development and supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/205 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: QUALITY ASSURANCE REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/109
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Steve Tshwete Sub-district (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus five (5) years working experience in a health care facility with
at least two (2) years in clinical care management at Hospitals and Primary Health Care facility.
Knowledge of clinical care processes and procedures aligned to Heath Profession Act and other
relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Allied Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Patients’ Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act and Disciplinary code and procedure. Knowledge of principles and methodologies
norms and standards applicable to the Health Act. Knowledge of IDEAL and OHSC automated
system will be an added advantage. Other public service legislation and frameworks. Good
communication (Verbal and Written), interpersonal, planning, organizing, financial
management, technical, facilitation, analytical, problem solving, decision making and computer
skills (MS Office packages). Ability to work independently and in a team. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide support and oversight to Primary Health Care facilities in activities of clinical governance
standard, Quality Assurance activities, Ideal framework, OHSC framework and management of
complaints, complements and suggestions. Review and revise existing norms and standards
for aligned with current norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
POST 18/206 : TRAINING OFFICER: HRD REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/111 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus a three-year Diploma / Degree in
HR, HRD, Public Management / Affairs or equivalent (NQF level 6/7) as recognized by SAQA.
A two-year post qualification experience in training facilitation. Valid driver’s licence. A short
course in a Train the Trainer / Facilitators or relevant HRD programme will be an added
advantage. Skills: Demonstrable training, facilitation & presentation skills. Good interpersonal
relations, Communication skills, Working knowledge of the Public Service Act, PFMA, Skills
Development Act, Employment Equity Act and other relevant prescripts. Computer literacy
(Power Point and Ms Word).
DUTIES : Facilitate training. Co-ordinate HRD activities at the Provincial office and collaborate with
Districts and facilities. Facilitate the Compulsory Induction Programme. Liaise with The National
School of Government and other training providers. Keep training records on the training
119
database. Conduct needs assessment, develop training material, and conduct impact
assessment. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports for the HRD unit. Must be able to
drive and travel to meetings and workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 /
Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766
3018.
120
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 obtainable from any
Public Service Department or any Public Service Administration website. The fully completed
and signed Z83 should be accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and relevant
documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following communication from the
Human Resource Management Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested
documents or information will result in your application not being considered. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representavity
in line with the numerical targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not
been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, qualification verification and employment verification). Where
applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The request for certified documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. The Human Resource Administration of the Department will inform shortlisted
candidate for a post to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. Should
an applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for
all posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/207 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: NCDOH: 68/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, (salary will be based on years of experience post registration as a
Professional Construction Manager)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An Honors Degree/ BTech in the Built Environment with a minimum of six (6) year’s post
qualification experience in construction project management. Registered as a Professional
Project Manager with SACPCMP is compulsory. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of
programme and project management. Problem solving and analysis skills, Conflict management
skills and computer literacy.
DUTIES : To assist to manage the delivery of the infrastructure built environment programmes and
projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. Assist to prepare the construction procurement strategy
and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Assist prepare Packages/Individual
Project Briefs. Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan. Assist to monitor the implementation of programmes/Projects. Make
inputs to different Project Stage reports and designs. Assist to manage the interface between
the end- user/ community structures and implementing Agent/s
ENQUIRIES : Mr X. Mpelekana Tel No: (053) 8302 117
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
POST 18/208 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING, TB PROGAMME REF NO: NCDOH 69/2025
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least four (4) years’ experience in training or facilitation and clinical
experience in the management of TB and HIV co-infected patients as well as in health
programme management. Knowledge and understanding of public health systems, public
service systems and legislation governing public service. Good analytical and problem-solving,
presentation, administrative, training/facilitation, stakeholder and project management, report
writing, monitoring and evaluation, communication (written and verbal), conflict management
and computer literacy (Microsoft Office package) skills. Ability to work independently, in high-
pressured environment and with the team and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Overall Programme management and coordination of TB activities. Review the TB diagnosis
and treatment practices, make recommendations and feedback to district and provinces.
121
Provide technical support on strengthening TB infection and prevention. Review, print and
disseminate materials on TB infection control. Conduct training of health care workers on TB
clinical management. Provide technical assistance to provinces and districts on the scale up of
new diagnostic tests and treatment. Review the TB referral systems and make
recommendations for improvement. Review and update training manuals. Monitor and evaluate
progress of the TB programme against targets. Strengthen TB management at hospitals,
primary health care and community based structures. Conduct support visits to priority districts
to monitor programme implementation. Stakeholder management. Manage human and financial
resources. Supervise staff and monitor implementation of operational plans. Undertake
performance appraisals of staff. Review of the communication strategy on treatment literacy
and adherence. Manage financial resources as per PFMA and human resources per prescribed
HR policies. Draft and submit reports s required. Participate in stakeholder meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/209 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING: TB/HIV CARE & SUPPORT REF NO: NCDOH: 70/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. A minimum of 8 years working
experience in the Health field. Excellent knowledge of and experience in HIV, AIDS, TB and
related programmes and policy work thereof. Understanding of the current issues and trends in
the Health System. Good knowledge of the District Health System. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act and related Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of labour relations. Leadership
and excellent presentation skills. Good organising and problem solving skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Project management skills. Computer literacy. Valid
driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Implement and strengthen strategies to meet NDP, SDG, NSP, APP goals and objectives.
Ensure implementation of psychosocial support, differentiated Models of Care (DMOC), linkage
and retention in care strategies for HIV, AIDS, TB & NCDs in order to reduce morbidity and
mortality rates. Implement Care, support, and treatment adherence guidelines. Draft SOPs and
implementation Plans for HIV Care & Support guidelines. Draft SOPs for linkage and provision
for psychosocial support for PLWHIV, TB&NCDs. Provide technical support and monitor the
formation and maintenance of Adherence Clubs. Develop programmatic targets in consultation
with relevant programme and district programme coordinators and managers. Implement
DMOC (Differentiated Models of Care) guidelines. Implement strategies to meet TB, HIV&NCDs
linkage to care and retention in care. Work collaboratively to strengthen Palliative Care Services.
Facilitate and monitor the implementation of treatment, care and support guidelines in all Health
facilities. Work collaboratively with internal and external stakeholders to strengthen linkage and
retention in care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/210 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING: CCMT/ART REF NO: NCDOH: 71/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Extensive knowledge of HIV&AIDS
and TB, Public Health, clinical approaches, STI programmes Community Based Services and
Community development, district health support services, project/program management and
data management. Sound and in-depth knowledge of the Health Act and regulations pertaining
to the Act. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and applicable human
resources as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Good communication (verbal and written), financial and project management, negotiation,
people management, problem-solving, planning, organizing, time management, strategic
planning, policy analysis and development, diversity management, facilitation, leadership and
122
computer skills. Proven management competencies and leadership qualities. Ability work in a
highly pressured environment. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of HIV Treatment, Care & Support guidelines. Participate in policy,
guideline and SOP development. Facilitate re-alignment and implementation of treatment, care
and support guidelines in all Health facilities. Facilitate the implementation of the Strategic
Plans, NSP for HIV, TB and STIs, APP and operational Plans. Put systems in place for linkage
to care, Treatment initiation and Adherence. Facilitate improved collaboration of HIV, AIDS,
STIs & TB, between programmes. Provide support to district coordinators in strengthening
managerial and technical capacity of districts to implement TB, HIV collaborative activities in
partnership with civil society. Strengthen the implementation of community-based HIV/AIDS,
STIs & TB and services using the Ward Based Primary Health Care Outreach Teams
(WBPHCOT) strategy. Oversee the development of business plans process and assist
provinces to develop the business plans according to the DORA requirements, with clear
Indicator definitions and targets. Collaborate with the Advocacy and Social Mobilisation (ACSM)
unit in the development and review of the communication strategy on treatment literacy and
adherence. Manage financial resources as per PFMA and human resources per prescribed HR
policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/211 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: TB PROGRAMME PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO:
NCDOH: 72/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Driver’s license and willingness to
drive across the province. Knowledge of DSTB/and TB/ HIV Management as well as relevant
information systems. Competent in Microsoft Office, Knowledge of District Health Information
Systems. Ability to work under pressure. Planning and Organizing Skills.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of the NSP and TB strategy plan and TB recovery plan. Provide
technical support to all public and private health facilities on Management of Tuberculosis.
Develop and Implement Standard Operating procedures for referral and linkage to care. Ensure
the availability of TB&TB/HIV treatment/medication and laboratory supplies/consumables.
Ensure implementation of Infection Preventing and control in all Public Health Facilities.
Coordinate Capacity Building Programmes for all health workers. Coordinate and report
adverse drug events of TB Public Health Facilities. Put systems in place for TB& Surveillance
and TB Notifications. Put systems in place for tracking, tracing and linkage to care. Promote
TB/HIV Integration in all settings in the health system. Ensure implementation of new
diagnostics for case finding. Ensure utilization of approved information systems. Analyse,
validate data and report on performance of TB&DRTB Programmes. Collaborate with internal
and external stakeholders to ensure TB&DRTB in hospitals is addressed at all levels.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/212 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: INPATIENT CARE AND DRTB TB PROGRAMME REF
NO: NCDOH 73/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Valid Drivers Licence and
willingness to travel extensively in and outside the province. Knowledge of DSTB/DRTB and
HIV Management as well as relevant information systems. Competent in Microsoft Office.
Willingness to travel and work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to all public and private health facilities on Management of
Tuberculosis. Develop and Implement Standard Operating procedures for referral and linkage
to care. Ensure the availability of TB&DRTB treatment/medication and laboratory
supplies/consumables. Ensure implementation of Infection Preventing and control in all Public
123
Health Facilities. Coordinate Capacity Building Programmes for all healthworkers. Coordinate
and report adverse drug events of TB Public Health Facilities. Put systems in place for
TB&DRTB Surveillance and TB Notifications. Put systems in place for tracking, tracing and
linkage to care. Promote TB/HIV Integration in all settings in the health system. Ensure
implementation of new diagnostics for case finding. Ensure utilization of approved information
systems. Analyse, validate data and report on performance of TB&DRTB Programmes.
Collaborate with internal and external stakeholders to ensure TB&DRTB in hospitals is
addressed at all levels.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/213 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: REGIONAL TRAINING CENTRE REF NO: NCDOH
74/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. A minimum of 5 years working
experience in the Health field. Excellent knowledge of and experience in APC, IMCI, EPI, SRH,
HAST and related programmes and policy work thereof. Good knowledge of the District Health
System. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and related Treasury Regulations.
Leadership and excellent presentation skills. Good organising and problem solving skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Project management skills. Basic Computer literacy.
Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the overall planning, implementation and monitoring of the provincial training plan
and strategy. Provide technical assistance for the district teams on identified training needs.
Innovatively leading and advising on evidence-based approaches for improving the integration
of all activities. Collaborate with National Department of Health (NDoH) and all health
programmes and external stakeholders. Provide strategic direction and operational support to
the district teams and partners to ensure compliance with programmes policies, guidelines and
SOPs. Conduct skills audits, capture and report to relevant stakeholders. Provide mentoring to
health care workers on clinical guidelines. Fulfil financial and reporting requirements for the
Regional Training Centre. Participate in developing business plans, District Implementation
Plans and operational plans to integrate the training plans and activities. Lead in supervision
and monitoring of training implementation. Track and support training activities to ensure
optimal delivery of required services and timeous meeting of targets. Prepare weekly, monthly,
quarterly and annual narrative progress reports including DORA reports. Assist District task
teams to identify priority activities for training needs. Co-ordinate and facilitate trainings and
workshops. Facilitate technical assistance for district co-ordination teams and Primary Health
Care facility staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O. Lesejane Tel No: (053) 8302 130
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/214 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: CHILD & ADOLESCENT ART SERVICES REF NO:
NCDOH 75/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Excellent knowledge of and
experience in HIV and AIDS and related programmes and policy work thereof. Good knowledge
of the District Health System. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and related
Treasury Regulations. Leadership and excellent presentation skills. Good organising and
problem solving skills. Good communication skills (written and verbal). Project management
skills. Basic Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Ensure that NDP, SDGs, NSP and APP goals and objectives are met. Support implementation
of key peads, child and adolescent interventions aimed at reaching planned targets. Implement
creative strategies to ensure that the UNAIDS 95-95-95 target for children and adolescents are
met. Provision of technical support to district and facilities on implementation of Peads &
124
Adolescent Matrix of intervention tool. Work closely with stakeholders to ensure that HIV
prevention and treatment activities are integrated into all Child, Adolescent and School Health
and VTP (Vertical Transmission) programmes. Co-ordination of the Child& Adolescent TWG on
monthly& quarterly basis. Monitor implementation of key programme activities at facility, district
and provincial level, and provide feedback regarding performance at each of these levels.
Technical support on guideline implementation including data and information management.
Liaise with stakeholders within and outside of the health sector in order to strengthen Childs&
Adolescent HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and support services. Support the Operation
Phuthuma activities, including the provincial nerve centres.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/215 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: HIV, STI PREVENTION STRATEGIES REF NO: NCDOH
76/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Knowledge of District Health system
and Information systems. Driver’s Licence and willingness to drive across the province.
DUTIES : Ensure that goals and objectives of NDP, SDG, NSP and APP are achieved, Implement
effective & efficient HIV Combination Prevention strategies i.e HTS, MMC, Condoms, PreP.
PEP and other innovative biomedical and structural strategies. Support social behaviour change
and communication campaigns. Coordinate Key Populations and High Transmission Areas
service provision. Manage financial and non-financial resources allocated to HIV Prevention
strategies, compile and submit report as required. Support training for HIV prevention
programmes. To monitor and evaluate implementation of the programme in all districts and to
strengthen partnership with internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/216 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: HIV TESTING SERVICES REF NO: NCDOH 77/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Knowledge of District Health
system, Health Information systems and indicators. Valid Driver’s license and willingness to
drive across the province. Good communication skill (written and verbal). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure that the NDP, SDG, NSP and APP goals and objectives are met. Implement an effective
&efficient HIV testing and counselling programme to ensure targets are achieved. Increase
uptake of HTS through expansion of HTS services. Facilitate continuous availability, equal
distribution and monitoring of stock levels and commodities required for the implementation of
the HTS programme. Support Social Behaviour Change and Communication strategies.
Manage financial and non-financial resources allocated to HIV prevention strategies, compile
and submit report as required. Support training for HIV, TB and related programmes. Monitor
and evaluate implementation of the programme in all districts. Strengthen partnership with
internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Lute Tel No: (053) 8300 524
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/217 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (MASTER TRAINER) REF NO: NCDOH 78/2025
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
125
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District
ZFM District
Namakwa District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. A qualification in nursing education or Primary Health Care will serve
as an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years working experience in the Health field. Excellent
knowledge of and experience in HIV, AIDS, STIs & TB and related programmes and policy work
thereof. Good knowledge of the District Health System. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act and related Treasury Regulations. Leadership and excellent presentation
skills. Good organising and problem solving skills. Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Project management skills. Basic Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the overall planning, implementation and monitoring of the provincial training plan
and strategy. Provide technical assistance for the teams on identified training needs.
Innovatively leading and advising on evidence-based approaches for improving the integration
of all activities. Collaborate with Provincial Department of Health (PDoH) and all health
programmes and external stakeholders. Provide strategic direction and operational support to
the district teams and partners to ensure compliance with programmatic outcomes. Conduct
skills audits, capture and report to relevant stakeholders. Provide mentoring to health care
workers on clinical guidelines. Fulfil financial and reporting requirements for the Training Unit.
Participate in developing business plans, District Implementation Plans and operational plans
to integrate the training plans and activities. Lead in supervision and monitoring of training
implementation. Track and support training activities to ensure optimal delivery of required
services and timeous meeting of targets. Prepare weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
narrative progress reports including DORA reports. Assist District task teams to identify priority
activities for training needs. Co-ordinate and facilitate trainings and workshops. Facilitate
technical assistance for district co-ordination teams and Primary Health Care facility staff.
ENQUIRIES : (John Taolo Gaetsewe District) Mr KM Taolo/Mr L. Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
(Namakwa District) Mr D. Grootboom/Ms E Cloete Tel No: (027) 7121601
(ZF Mgcawu District) Mr M. Beketsana/ Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
APPLICATIONS : Application For John Taolo Gaetsewe District: Please note applications can be hand
delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho Health Centre, Mothibistad or E-Mailed at nchealthhr-
jtg@ncpg.gov.za All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand.
Applications For Namakwa District: Please note that applications can be hand delivered to
Namakwa District Office, Human Resource Management Unit, Nakanas Building, Rivierstreet
Springbok, 8240. Or e-mailed to eacloete@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
Applications For Zf Mgcawu District: Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-
zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be hand delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old
Gordonia Hospital), Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old
Gordonia Hospital) Private Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/218 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (HIV PREVENTION) REF NO: NCDOH: 79/2025
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Namakwa District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Knowledge of the District Health System, HIV, AIDS, STIs& TB and
related programmes. Understanding of Health Information systems and indicators. Driver’s
license and willingness to drive extensively in the district and province. Good communication
skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure that NDP, SDGs, NSP and APP Goals and objectives are achieved. Implement and
coordinate effective and efficient prevention programmes i.e. HTS, STIs, MMC, PrEP, PEP,
Condoms, Key populations and High Transmission Areas. Link PLWHIV to appropriate
treatment care and support. Manage financial and non-financial resources allocated to HIV
prevention strategies, compile and submit reports as required. Plan collaboratively on social
behaviour modification and reduction of MTC Vertical Transmission. Improve the proficiency of
clinicians and non-clinicians on HIV prevention strategies. Conduct monitoring and evaluation
at all levels. Maintain a constructive working relationship with the partners and other
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom/Ms E Cloete Tel No: (027) 7121601
APPLICATIONS : Please note that applications can be hand delivered to Namakwa District Office, Human
Resource Management Unit, Nakanas Building, Rivierstreet Springbok, 8240. Or e-mailed to
126
eacloete@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register when an application
is hand delivered.
POST 18/219 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (CCMT/ART) REF NO: NCDOH: 80/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Frances Baard District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide direct support, guidance and mentoring to health facilities with an aim of improving
quality of patient care. Ensure that clinical audits are conducted at a sub-district level and
development of quality improvement plans. Participate in the formulation of the District
Treatment, Care & Support operational and business planning process. Participate in provincial,
district and sub-district HAST meetings i.e district quarterly performance reviews, provincial
reviews/nerve centre meetings. Lead the district to achieve the 959595 strategy for HIV with
much focus on the 2nd and 3rd 95 of the treatment cascade. Work in close collaboration with
other stakeholders i.e Care & Support coordinator to implement HAST programme activities and
improve programme outcomes. Collaborate with the district master trainer to capacitate health
care workers on guidelines and new programmatic mandates. Compile monthly/adhoc reports
as and when needed and submit to supervisor and provincial CCMT manager. Monitor
performance of programmatic data elements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances Baard Health
District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand deliver at the Registry Office at the
Frances Baard Health District Office, Green street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to:
ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
POST 18/220 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (TB FOCAL- HOSPITALS) REF NO: NCDOH 81/2025 (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
Pixley Ka Seme District: New Central Karoo (De Aar) Hospital, Manne Dipico Hospital, Bill
Pickard Hospital
Frances Baard District: Prof Z.K.Matthews, Connie Vorster Hospital, ZF Mgcawu District:
Postmansburg Hospital, Kakamas Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as Professional. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional/Enrolled Nurse. Experience: 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s license and a willingness to travel in and outside the
province Competencies in TB & HIV. Community Prevention and Control (knowledge/skills):
Work experience in HIV and TB programme implementation. Good understanding of the South
African public health national and provincial policies. Nurse related Community Practices and
Health Programme Policies. Extensive experience with client tracking (via telephone and in
person through home visits). Knowledge of health information systems eg DHIS, Tier HPRS
ect. Good interpersonal, collaborative, leadership and communication skills. Solid data
management, analysis and interpretation abilities, Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and
PowerPoint) and Good report writing skills. Good planning, organisational, project management
and training skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate TB activities in the hospitals, in close collaboration with hospital management, TB
Manager, HAST and Facility Managers. Implement TB FAST Model. Implement hospital-based
TB Quality Improvement (QI) activities, including establishing QI teams (where none exist) and
facilitating QI meetings. Support data collection and data management activities by working
closely with data capturers and data management teams; Promote high quality data collation
and data management; Support in-hospital TB and HIV care and prevention activities, including
screening, patient education, sputum collection and HIV testing; Provide mentorship and
support for provision of appropriate treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI) Support linkage to
care in hospital, in close collaboration with the TB Linkage Officer. Support active TB case
finding using appropriate messaging and IEC material. Promote and support implementation of
effective infection prevention and control activities throughout the hospital. Ensure profile and
service data on TB patients are accurate and reported to M&E team in a timeous manner.
Ensure staff adhere to standard operating procedures (SOP) with respect to personal protective
equipment (PPE). Coordinator and facilitate TB/TB IPC training in the hospital. Collaborate with
internal and external stakeholders to strengthen TB&IPC in the hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : (Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital) Ms. H Alexander/Ms M. Visser Tel No: (053) 802 9111
127
(Pixley Ka Seme District) Ms MS McCloen/B Jack HRA – District Office/ Tel No: (053) 632
4000/4206
(frances baard district) Mr MC Joka /Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
(ZF Mgcawu District) Mr M. Beketsana/Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
APPLICATIONS : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital: Please note applications can be hand delivered to the
HRM 3rd Floor Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
Pixley Ka Seme District) Applications must be emailed to nchealthhr-Pixley@ncpg.gov.za or
hand delivered or couriered via postal to Van der Merwe Street, De Aar,7000
Frances Baard District: Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health:
Frances Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand deliver at
the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green street, Old West End
Hospital or emailed to:VncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za Applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
ZF Mgcawu District: Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be
hand delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia Hospital),
Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old Gordonia Hospital) Private
Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
POST 18/221 : DIETICIAN REF NO: NCDOH 82/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Pixley Ka Seme District (X1 Post)
ZFM District (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS Appropriate qualification that allows for the required registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession. Registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession. Experience: Grade 1: None
after obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA), Grade 2:
Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration with the Health Professional Council
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professional Council (HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect
of RSA qualified employees who performed Community Service as required in South Africa.
skills profile: Report writing skills, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal skills, Team work, Resource
management (human and other resources), Information Management, Time Management,
Planning and execution, Initiative, Communication and presentation skills, Ability to facilitate
trainings.
DUTIES : Nutrition management of patients, Nutrition Education, Promotion and Advocacy, Quality
assurance of nutrition related services, Collaborations with Relevant Stakeholders, Monitor and
Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : ZF Mgcawu District Mr M. Beketsana/ Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
Pixley Ka Seme District Ms MS McCloen/B Jack HRA – District Office/ Tel No: (053) 632
4000/4206
APPLICATIONS : ZF Mgcawu District: Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be
hand delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia Hospital),
Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old Gordonia Hospital) Private
Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
Pixley Ka Seme District: Applications must be emailed to nchealthhr-Pixley@ncpg.gov.za or
hand delivered or couriered via postal to Van der Merwe Street, De Aar,7000
POST 18/222 : RADIOGRAPHER REF NO: NCDOH 83/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : ZFM District, Pixley Ka Seme District, Namakwa District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/B Tech Degree in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Diagnostic Radiographer. Must have
completed Community Service as per the Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with HPCSA in the relevant profession. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 year's
appropriate experience in the relevant profession after registration with HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Grade 3: Experience: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA in the relevant profession after registration with HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Knowledge And Skills: Computer literacy essential. Good interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of Public Service legislation, policies and procedures. Knowledge of current DOH
policies governing the Health sector and Radiograph and profession. Knowledge, Skills,
Attributes and Abilities. Experience in Digital Radiography. Experience in utilisation of
128
computerised Radiography system is recommended. Must have computer skills. Good
Interpersonal skills. Excellent time management skills and must have knowledge of public
service legislation governing the health sector and radiography profession. Compliance in
budgeting, radiographic quality assurance, National Core standards, Safety and Infection
control principles. Training and supervision of students. Good written and verbal communication
skills. Ability to work as a member of a multidisciplinary team. Must have a good understanding
of public hospital operational system.
DUTIES : Provide and manage imaging procedures as requested by the doctors. Evaluate requests forms
by verifying patient information and ensuring patient history and examination correspond.
Operate radiological equipment correctly for specific exam. Interrogate images. Ensure an even
flow of patient at all times. Ensure adherence to radiation, health and safety protocols. Manage
staff radiation procedure and ensure that all staff wear their devices at all times. Protect patient
and colleagues from radiation. Monitor personal radiation exposure. Adhere to all infection
control policies. Conduct patient care and quality assurance. Ensure patient safety at all times.
Protect patient confidentiality. Conduct quality control and safe-keep equipment. Have
knowledge of all equipment and troubleshooting when there is a breakdown. Assist and
implement quality control procedures. Train junior staff. Report machine faults to Radiographers
in charge. Ensure staff/student development. Present for in-service training sessions. Training
junior staff at CT/MRI. Develop protocols for CT/MRI. Conduct community outreach services
for TB case finding.
ENQUIRIES : ZF Mgcawu District Mr M. Beketsana/ Mr. F. van Neel Tel no.: (054) 337 0600
Pixley Ka Seme District Ms MS McCloen/B Jack HRA – District Office/ Tel No: (053) 632
4000/4206
Namakwa District Mr D. Grootboom/Ms EA Cloete Tel No: (027) 7121601
APPLICATIONS : ZF Mgcawu: District Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be hand
delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia Hospital), Upington
or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old Gordonia Hospital) Private Bag
X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must complete an application register when an application
is hand delivered.
Pixley Ka Seme: District Applications must be emailed to nchealthhr-Pixley@ncpg.gov.za or
hand delivered or couriered via postal to Van der Merwe Street, De Aar,7000
Namakwa District: Please note that applications can be hand delivered to Namakwa District
Office, Human Resource Management Unit, Nakanas Building, Rivierstreet Springbok, 8240.
Or e-mailed to namakwahealthhrm@gmail.com. Applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered
POST 18/223 : SOCIAL WORKER REF NO: 84/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Frances Baard District (Sol Plaatjie Municipality)
REQUIREMENTS : Formal Tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Arts) that allows professional
registration with the SACSSP. Registration with the SACSSP (South African Council for Social
Service Profession) as a Social Worker. A valid Driver’s. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience in social work after registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years’ experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
DUTIES : Establish social work services and network for the Institution and maintain communication with
stakeholders. Ensure that social work service with regard to the care, support and protection of
individuals, groups, families through relevant programmes is rendered. Keep up to date with
new developments in the social work field. Undertake social work research and development
and contribute to the development of policies. Render a holistic social work services to individual
groups and community using all methods of social work practices. Monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of recommended interventions, reports on progress and identify. Further amended
interventions to address identified conditions. Liaise / attend meetings with other departments
and nongovernmental institutions to take 107 cognizance of the latest developments in the
relevant fields. Produce and maintain qualitative and quantitative records of social work
interventions processes and Outcomes. Implement social welfare programme in accordance
with the need of the community and Government priorities. Supervise all administrative
functions required in the unit and undertake the higher level of administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances Baard Health
District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand deliver at the Registry Office at the
Frances Baard Health District Office, Green Street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to:
ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
129
POST 18/224 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (COMMUNICATIONS) REF NO: NCDOH 85/2025 (X1 POST)
Purpose: To render administrative services, to render general clerical support and
communication services and to render general clerical support and videography services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : ZF Mgcawu District (Upington)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate, 1 to 2 years experience in the communication field.
DUTIES : Provide Communication support services within the district; Render communication duties
within the district. Monitor media coverage including social media platforms. Solicit responses
and inputs for media statements and media responses. Draft and compile inputs for
departmental social media updates. Implementation of District Communication Plan. Designing
infographics for Health Calendar activities. Drafting radio scripts for programmes. Monitoring
and evaluation of community needs and usage of health information. Render general clerical
support services; Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line
function). Update registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and
receive documents. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required.
Collaborate with internal and external stakeholders; Liaise and interact with various strategic
stakeholders within the district. Plan and implement activities in the district. Represent the
NCDOH at various structures in the localities. Assist in the facilitation and co-ordination of
monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Mxekezo Tel No: (053) 8302 100
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building, Room 29,
couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum Building, Kimberley
Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 18/225 : AUXILIARY SOCIAL WORKERS REF NO: NCDOH 86/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R215 181.per annum
Grade 2: R227 292 – R255 534.per annum
Grade 3: R270 009 – R334 419 per annum, (depending on years of experience)
CENTRE : Frances Baard (X1 Post)
John Taolo Gaetsewe (X1 Post)
Namakwa (X1 Post)
Pixley Ka Seme (X1 Post)
Zf Mgcawu (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learner ship to allow registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary Worker, Grade 2:
Grade 10 plus completion of the learner ship to allow registration with the South African Council
for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary Worker. Registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions as Social Auxiliary Worker. A minimum of
10 years appropriate experience in social auxiliary work after registration as Social Auxiliary
Worker with the SACSSP or no experience after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with the
SACSSP and successful completion of the 2nd academic year of an appropriate tertiary
qualification that allows registration as Social Worker with the SACSP. Grade 3: Grade 10 plus
completion of the learner ship to allow registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary Worker. Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as Social Auxiliary Worker. A minimum of 20 years
appropriate experience in social auxiliary work after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with
the SACSSP or A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social auxiliary work after
registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with the SACSSP and successful completion of the 2nd
academic year of an appropriate tertiary qualification that allows for registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP.
DUTIES : Establish adherence clubs for PLWIH and TB with assistance of District Care and support
Coordinators. Facilitate adherence club sessions. Collect pre-dispensed/packaged medication
packages for adherence club members. Provision of enhanced adherence counselling (EAC)
for unsuppressed clients. Support primary caregivers or conduct disclosure counselling on-
behalf of primary care givers. Link PLWHIV&TB to other services. Check on adherence and
wellness of adherence club members and refer club members back to facility if necessary.
Training and capacity building of CHCWs on adherence clubs and linkage to care. Update
adherence club attendance register and compile monthly/quarterly adherence club reports.
Work collaboratively with facility managers, district coordinators and external stakeholders to
strengthen retention in care.
ENQUIRIES : Pixley Ka Seme District Ms MS McCloen/B Jack HRA – District Office/ Tel No: (053) 632
4000/4206
Frances Baard District Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
Namakwa District Mr D. Grootboom/Ms E Cloete Tel No: (027) 7121601
ZF Mgcawu District Mr M. Beketsana/Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
John Taolo Gaetsewe District: Mr KM Taolo/Mr L. Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS Pixley Ka Seme District: Applications must be emailed to nchealthhr-Pixley@ncpg.gov.za or
hand delivered or couriered via postal to Van der Merwe Street, De Aar,7000
130
Frances Baard District: Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health:
Frances Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand deliver at
the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green street, Old West End
Hospital or emailed to:ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za Applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
Namakwa District: Please note that applications can be hand delivered to Namakwa District
Office, Human Resource Management Unit, Nakanas Building, Rivierstreet Springbok, 8240.
Or e-mailed to eacloete@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register when
an application is hand delivered.
ZF Mgcawu District: Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be
hand delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia Hospital),
Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old Gordonia Hospital) Private
Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must complete an application register when an
application is hand delivered.
John Taolo Gaetsewe District: Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso
Street, Kagisho Health Centre, Mothibistad or E-Mailed at nchealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand.
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND PUBLIC WORKS
the provincial administration of the northern cape is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. persons with a
disability are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your application online
only, via http://ncrpw.ncpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z.83 obtainable from any Public Service Department
as well as a comprehensive curriculum vitae. Any Z83 form that is not signed will disqualify the
application. The specific reference number of the post must be quoted. Failure to submit all
requested documents will result in the application not been considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within two months after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Communication from HR of the department regarding the requirements for certified documents
will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from HR. Note that all suitable candidates will be subjected to a satisfactory
personnel suitability check (criminal records checks, citizenship verification, qualification
verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to a security clearance process. Non-
RSA citizens/permanent residents permit holders must attach a copy of their permanent
residents permit to the application. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must
be accompanied by the evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The Department of Roads and Public Works reserves the right not to make
appointments to the advertised posts. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine a candidate’s suitability based
on the post’s technical & generic requirements as well as an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. All applications must reach the Department of Roads and Public Work before
16:00 on the day of the closing date. Incomplete applications and applications received after
the closing date will be disqualified.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/226 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: KEY ACCOUNTS REF NO: DRPW/HR01/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma in Real Estate or related Property Management fields. 3 to 4 years’ experience in
property management, lease administration, processing of payments and the management of
the immovable asset register. A valid code B drivers’ license, Computer literate. Experience
with government procurement processes, contract management, and lease agreements,
Comprehensive knowledge of relevant legislation, including the government Immovable Asset
Management Act (GIAMA) of 2000, PFMA, Treasury regulations, Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA) of 2000, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) of 2000, and
Public Service Regulations, Understanding of risk analysis, legal contract imperatives, and
compliance monitoring, Proficiency in Microsoft Office and government finance/management
systems, such as Proman, Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Negotiate, procure, and finalize lease agreements in collaboration with Supply Chain
Management and Legal Services, Draft, review, and implement legally compliant lease
contracts that align with government regulations and property needs, Conduct risk assessments
and develop mitigation strategies for lease agreements, ensuring risk minimization and
alignment with departmental objectives, Interpret functional and technical standards to ensure
lease specifications are accurate and legally sound, Oversee the payment processes for
municipal accounts, rates, taxes, and service fees for leased properties, ensuring timely and
131
accurate transactions, manage the capturing, tracking, and reconciliation of revenue and
expenditure for leased and state-owned properties, Monitor and analyze utility costs,
recommending interventions for cost savings and improved facility use, Ensure accurate and
up-to-date records in the Proman system to maintain financial transparency and accountability,
Conduct regular inspections of leased properties to ensure compliance with maintenance
standards and lease agreements, Coordinate with facilities management to address cleaning,
gardening, and other upkeep tasks on government properties, Liaise with User Departments
and external stakeholders on property usage, occupancy compliance, and timely surrender of
unused facilities, Identify potential issues related to property condition or illegal occupation and
implement preventative actions as needed, Lead and manage the leases team, setting clear
objectives and providing guidance to ensure effective lease management processes, Conduct
performance reviews, provide mentorship, and facilitate ongoing training and professional
development for team members, Ensure staff compliance with departmental policies,
encouraging adherence to standards in property management and service delivery, Delegate
responsibilities effectively to maintain a high-performing team aligned with the department’s
strategic goals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Kgomongwe Tel No: (053) 839 5618
POST 18/227 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: DRPW/HR02/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma NQF level 6 in Labour Relations with 1-2 years relevant experience in Labour
Relations environment. In depth knowledge of related legislation such as the PSA, PSR. LRA,
BCEA and PFMA, proven exposure to the handling of individual and collective
dispute/grievances, good verbal and written communication skills, facilitation & presentation
skills, mediation & conflict management skills, valid code EB driver’s license and willingness to
travel, computer literacy. Competencies: knowledge and understanding of the labour relations
management environment, knowledge of the PERSAL system, communication and
interpersonal skills, computer skills, client orientated, planning & organizing, presentation skills.
DUTIES : Handle misconduct cases and appeals. Promote sound Labour Relations in the Department,
Promotion and maintenance of Labour peace and harmonious employer/employee relations,
capacity building of the employees on labour relations, facilitate the development &
implementation of labour relations policies, facilitate and co-ordinate disputes, monitor the
resolution of grievances and disputes, conduct investigations and compiling reports. Keep all
stakeholders informed of the progress regarding specific cases, handle disputes, grievances
and disciplinary cases, ensure the implementation of collective agreements, provide support for
the implementation of collective agreements e.g. PSCBC and GPSSBC. Capture case
outcomes on the PERSAL system. Ensure timeous reporting and compliance of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mkosana Tel No: (053) 839 2196
POST 18/228 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EPWP PROVINCIAL CO-ORDINATION REF NO:
DRPW/HR03/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A degree/diploma in Public Management/Business Management or Business Administration,
with at least 3 years’ working experience in Public Employment Programs, or a Grade 12 with
3 – 5 years’ experience. Knowledge of PFMA and Government budget process, Computer
Literate: MS Office, ability to meet deadlines, problem solving skills, planning and organizational
skills, analytical thinking, good communication skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist with the facilitation of signing of protocols between the department and EPWP
implementing bodies to ensure that funds are transferred for the implementation of projects,
Conduct project visits on all projects funded by the department to ensure compliance of the
EPWP principles, Submit monthly progress reports on EPWP projects to the Community
Development Manager, Provide support to implementing bodies through meetings and
engagements, Request monthly progress reports from EPWP Coordinators bodies in the
Districts, Review and check reports to ensure that it is compliant before submitting to M&E unit
for capturing, Identify challenges on site for project improvement and final assessments,
Prepare and present a report on current and planned infrastructure projects funded by the
department, Receive protective clothing from suppliers and ensure its safe, Establish project
steering committees, Keep record of all Personal Protective Equipment received from suppliers
and issued for EPWP projects to district coordinators.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Michaels Tel No: (053) 839 2268
132
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this advertisement to achieve
equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in employment through the elimination of
unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and
place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess personnel will receive
preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/229 : HEAD OF CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel to meet service needs. It
will be expected of the Head: Clinical Unit to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if
operational requirements so demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
experience in teaching, training and supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
Appropriate experience in conducting and supervising research. Demonstrated experience of
engagement at all levels of care. Appropriate management experience of clinical services as
well as overseeing a sizable staff component. Proven record of specialist clinical expertise and
clinical governance and improving health outcomes. Appropriate experience in a management
role overseeing a sizable staff component. Excellent leadership, managerial, interpersonal,
conflict resolution, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Good knowledge of
public health policies, clinical guidelines, and related prescripts. Good computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Orthopedic service of high quality with a patient centred
focus and addressing the Orthopedic burden of disease in the Rural West ecosystem. Ensure
all functions to ensure good clinical governance for Orthopedics in Paarl Hospital and supporting
the Rural West Ecosystem. Ensure outreach and support to all major referral centres in the
Rural West ecosystem and improving competencies in the ecosystem to manage patients
appropriately and impact on wellness in the Rural West ecosystem. Perform all corporate
functions and assume the duties of the Functional Business Unit (FBU) manager for
Orthopedics that includes financial & human resource management, quality assurance,
information management and ensuring administrative compliance to Departmental policies.
Create a learning environment and ensure clinical teaching and training for staff and students.
Ensure that continuous healthcare improvement strategies and plans are implemented towards
improving service delivery and health outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Fourie Tel No: (021) 860-2500 or Stephanus.Fourie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE 13 June 2025
POST 18/230 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALTY) PAEDIATRIC INFECTIOUS DISEASES
(24-Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics or
Pathology (Clinical Microbiology or Virology). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics or Pathology (Clinical
133
Microbiology or Virology). Inherent requirement of the job: FCPaed and/MMed (Paed). A valid
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in general paediatrics at
postgraduate level. Good interpersonal and communication skills Ability to work under pressure
and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to supervise medical
students and rotating registrars.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Infectious Diseases and Immunodeficiency clinical care and
procedures in the ambulatory service and in-patient setting. Infectious Diseases telephonic
consultation. Paediatric Infectious Diseases outreach together with consultant staff members
After hours, calls as for senior registrars in the division of paediatric medicine and responsible
to the director of the registrar programme. Teaching: Undergraduate students and junior staff.
Case presentations and participation in academic meetings. Research: Involvement with clinical
reviews, audits, clinical policies and case reports. The post holder is expected to conduct a
research project towards producing a Master’s thesis and peer review publications. Learning:
Rotation through areas of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital and diagnostic
laboratories of the National Health Laboratory Services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Moegamad Salie Tel No: (021) 658-5430 or Email: Moegamad.Salie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be subjected
to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their period of
training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented.
Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a
Senior Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for
advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an
indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be
required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University according to the yearbook
and guidelines. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/231 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALTY) DEVELOPMENTAL PAEDIATRICS
(24-Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in Paediatrics. Registration with the Health
Professions Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics.
Inherent requirements of the job: FCPaed and MMed (Paed). Must provide after-hours
emergency services and participate in commuted overtime at 16 hours per week within the
Department of Paediatrics and Child Health Platform. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in and/or demonstrated interest in working with children and their caregivers.
Excellent interpersonal and communication skills (both written and oral). Demonstrated
understanding of being mindful of cultural differences and adapting communication and
administration methods to respect diverse patients. Strong attention to detail and ability to work
both independently and collaboratively within a team. Demonstrated commitment to ethical
conduct, patient safety, and maintaining confidentiality. Experience in general paediatrics at a
post graduate level. Direct experience in working with children living with Autism Spectrum
Disorder, Cerebral Palsy and other developmental conditions. Ability and willingness to
supervise medical students and rotating registrars.
DUTIES : Comprehensive Neurodevelopmental clinical care and service delivery in the
Neurodevelopmental service outpatient and inpatient setting under the direction of specialist
supervisors. After-hours calls as for senior registrars in the Department of Paediatrics & Child
Health (UCT) and responsible to the director of the registrar programme. Administration and
134
management may be necessary to maintain the efficient running of the ward or service to which
currently attached. Supervise, guide and mentor medial students, interns, medical officers, and
paediatric registrars. Lead and participate in developmental assessments, diagnosis, coordinate
and manage ongoing care. Teach undergraduate medical students and contribute to training
programmes. Attend and contribute to high-risk neurodevelopmental follow-up clinic, cerebral
palsy, developmental clinic, and other relevant clinical duties. Engage in developmental
paediatric research under expert mentorship. The post holder is expected to conduct a research
project towards producing a Master’s (MPhil) thesis through UCT.Collaborate with a
multidisciplinary team to ensure holistic care for children with these conditions. Uphold clinical
governance principles, ensuring high-quality, risk mitigated patient care. Successful completion
of the Cert Developmental Paeds (SA) which includes all the logbook requirements of the
College of Paediatrics. Participating fully in all activities of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Prof K Donald Tel No: (021) 658 5322 or kirsty.donald@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may be subjected
to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their period of
training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented.
Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a
Senior Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for
advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an
indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be
required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University according to the yearbook
and guidelines. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/232 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MANAGER
Overberg District
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Overstrand Sub-district, Hermanus
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related National Diploma/Degree
or equivalent, registrable with a South African Statutory Health Professions Council or South
African Nursing Council. Experience: Appropriate/recognisable experience in District Heath
Systems/Management/Services. Appropriate experience in PHC Management. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/CI) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the
district. Availability to work after hours, if and when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Managerial skills, strategic thinking, interpretation and articulation skills. Sound knowledge of
professional ethics. Computer literacy (i.e., MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Good intra- and
interpersonal skills aimed at professional relational development, maintenance of good
professional relations and effective conflict resolution. Adaptable and innovative in a high-
pressure environment and to work independently and in different clinical settings. Good
communication skills. Be able to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Operational and strategic management of Primary Health Care services for the sub-district.
Manage critical support services. Adequate financial planning and control. HR planning and
management. Liaison and interaction with micro/specific and macro/general environment-
Networking.
ENQUIRIES : Dr F Fourie Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will be required to
undergo a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
135
POST 18/233 : REGISTRAR (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Must work after hours and shift
work. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written).
Ability to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms. Computer literacy in MS
Office. Experience in essential gynaecological emergency care. Experience in labour ward
management, including operative and assisted deliveries.
DUTIES : In and after hour care to women accessing obstetric and gynaecological health services on our
service platform. Participation in the academic activities of with Department.
ENQUIRIES : Prof N Mbatani or Dr A Osman Tel No: (021) 404 6020 or email: nomonde.mbatani@uct.ac.za/
ayesha.osman@uct.ac.za or marilyn.kok@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments
may be called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and
Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing employees who
are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As
such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a
maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrar ship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should registration with the
HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. The Department of Health is
guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to
register as post-graduates with University of the Western Cape according to the yearbook and
guidelines.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/234 : REGISTRAR (SURGERY-GENERAL)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Certificate of ATLS and completion of Basic Surgical Skills Course. FCS (SA) part 1A.
Emergency and after hour call cover. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge, expertise
and experience with regards to providing medical services in General Surgery. Appropriate and
sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion of
internal rotations. Previous research experience. Post community service experience in General
Surgery.
DUTIES : Leadership. Innovation and Research. Teaching. Clinical Service: Operative. Clinical Service:
Patient care. Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Cairncross Tel No: (021) 406 6229 or melissa.mohamed@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
136
NOTE : Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments
may be called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and
Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific
Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action
programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures.
Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the Western Cape
according to the yearbook and guidelines. Consideration will be given to existing employees
who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal.
As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a
maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrar ship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should registration with the
HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/235 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA
qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in labour
ward management, including operative and assisted deliveries. Experience in essential
gynaecological emergency care. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability
to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms Computer literacy in MS Office.
Completion of community service.
DUTIES : In and after hour care to women accessing obstetric and gynaecological health services on our
service platform Participation in the academic activities of our department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Osman Tel No: (021) 404 6020 or email: ayesha.osman@uct.ac.za or
marilyn.koks@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform
and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross
War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital,
Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the relevant council
and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted
137
on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/236 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Witzenberg Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner
with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid Code (B/EB)
driver’s licence and willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
communicate (verbal and written). Good management, supervisory and decision-making skills.
Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies, relevant to current medical practice within the
Public Service, experience in working in a district level hospital and Primary Health Care (PHC)
setting.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Witzenberg Sub-district Primary Healthcare
facilities. Provide an Outreach and Support service to PHC facilities in the Witzenberg Sub-
district. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the
post. Active involvement in the clinical governance of Witzenberg Sub-district facilities as
required. Acute care and emergencies, including theatre work.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. J Fouche Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Witzenberg Sub-district for
a period of 3 months from the date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/237 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC, Swartland Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as
a Pharmacist, and proof of current registration. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in SA. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as
138
Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service. Grade
3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with SAPC
in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work as a Pharmacist within a multi-
disciplinary team at Malmesbury CDC and within the Swartland Sub-District. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures,
including cold chain practices, Good numeric skills/computer literate. Knowledge of Drug Supply
Management Principles. Sound knowledge of the EML. JAC/Well Sky dispensing system
knowledge. Meticulous and attention to detail. Good communication skills. Strategic Planner
and organize tasks. Financial Management. Good People Management and interpersonal skills,
team orientated. Service Delivery Innovation. Client orientated and Customer focused. Problem
solving and analysis. Mentoring and Tutoring skills. Ability to write SOPs.
DUTIES : Drug Supply management within the Swartland Sub-District. Quality Assurance and
Governance of Dispensing. Improved access to medication, including CDU and DMOC. Finance
and Supply Chain Management. People Management (in capacity of Delegated Supervisory
Pharmacist). Quality Assurance pertaining to Ideal Clinic and National Audits, Data collection
and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Fouche Tel No: (022) 487-9200/Ms T Midgley Tel No: (022) 486-8019
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only applicable
to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/238 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Bredasdorp CDC, Stationed at Cape Agulhas Sub-District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year in
Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited with the SANC
(R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
6 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification, Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid code B/EB/C1 driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Demonstrate an in-
depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource and
Financial policies. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Commissioning and Overall management of the Clinical, HRM, Supply Chain Management and
financial management of Cape Agulhas Sub-District. Manage the implementation of the COPC
approach and support the external and internal interface, with all the appropriate Health
Programme. Support the Health establishment staff to meet the Ideal Clinic Realisation and
Maintenance (ICRM) status of all the allocated facilities in Cape Agulhas Sub District.
Responsible for the co-ordination, supervision and control of nursing services. Ensure the
implementation of quality assurance programmes with set standards for safe patient care.
Information and data management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be required to
undergo a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/239 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: NURSING (AREA)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
139
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Ability to perform compulsory stand-by duty. Willingness to work overtime and assist
with shifts when operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word and Excel) and report writing skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal and
written). Knowledge of legislation relative to the Health Care Service and policies of the
Department of Health. Ability to manage own work, and that of the units which report to the post,
and to ensure appropriate interventions to enhance the nursing service at the institution.
DUTIES : Ensure the delivery of high-quality patient care through the implementation of different health
programs. Participation in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines,
practices, standards and procedures. Involvement in training programs in conjunction with
Human Resources Department for skills development. Collect, validate and interpret statistical
data. Manage Financial and Human resources in relevant nursing departments. Co-ordinate
and monitor critical hospital support function after hours in collaboration with relevant role
players and relieve Head of Nursing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Van Rooyen Tel No: (023) 348-1309
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test and a
competency test will form part of the selection process. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within Brewelskloof Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/240 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREA: NEONATOLOGY)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/ degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse and Midwife with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant speciality.
Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and
conflict resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure.
Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within
the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation and
monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and maintaining an
optimal, specialized Nursing service as an Operational Manager in a Neonatology area.
Effective management and utilization of Human and Financial Resources to ensure optimal
operational function in the area. Initiate and participate in training, development and research
within the nursing department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the
institution. To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/241 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (CLINICAL NURSE TRAINING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical
Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to maintain
140
registration with the SANC). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to do after hour
call duties based on operational requirements. Willingness to travel and work between Brooklyn
Chest Hospital and DP Marais Hospital. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good interpersonal
and leadership skills. Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing legislation and related
legal and ethical nursing practises and how this impact on service delivery. Ensure clinical
practice by the nursing team (unit) in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing
standards. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and
standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of
HR and financial policies and practices Work as part of a multidisciplinary team to ensure good
nursing care by the nursing team. Computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the development and the implementation of orientation/ induction
programme in clinical areas. Coordinate and facilitate the development of learning opportunities
for all nursing personnel Manage and administer the implementation of the informal nurse
training programs and assist with formal clinical training programs Manage the clinical
accompaniment/ mentorship programme. Effective Management and utilization of human
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G. Mashaba Tel No: (021) 508 7406
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/242 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PHC) (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Heath District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Saron Clinic (X1 Post)
Gouda Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in
Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the
South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within
the Sub District inclusive a Mobile and when needed within the community (COPC concept).
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth
knowledge of Nursing and public service legislation. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
Ability to promote quality patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines and
standards.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the disease burden in accordance with the guidelines and
protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of care to all patients and health
services. Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics registers, and referral records. Effective
utilization of Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in Community
events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related issues. Maintain and participate
in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise
and mentor lower categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. EJ Williams Tel No: (021) 862 -4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification: Diploma
in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment Care. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Drakenstein Sub-district for a period of 3 months from
date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
141
POST 18/243 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating theatre technique, which allows registration
with SANC. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Proof of current annual registration with SANC. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with
the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Operating Theatre after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Leadership towards
the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the Operating Theatre.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs, the planning and
implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing personnel as a Professional
Nurse in the Operating Theatre. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support clinical staff with surgical and medical procedures. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain and promote professional growth/ethical
standards and development of self and others. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification
in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar posts within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/244 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Kwanokuthula CDC, Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a professional Nurse and Midwife Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime when necessary and to work at other clinics
in the Sub-district. Willingness to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
NIMART training or experience. Problem-solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills.
Basic computer skills in (i.e., MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the comprehensive health
programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement Health Promotion and Prevention activities
in facility and Community. Link to the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit
reports. Provide PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and Infrastructure and
equipment management under supervision.
142
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Stander Tel No: (044) 302 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in:
Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within
the Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from the date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/245 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEALTH SUPPORT (INSPECTORATE)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year clinical qualification (degree/diploma) or
equivalent that is registrable with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) and/or Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Experience: Appropriate experience in clinical
practice plus appropriate experience specifically in a mental healthcare environment.
Appropriate experience in health services management will be an added advantage. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid unendorsed (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel
throughout the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and insight into
Private Health Establishment Regulations, Ambulance Service Regulations, Mental Health Care
legislation, as amended and applicable legislation. An understanding of clinical activities, needs,
norms and standards across all types of health services. Leadership qualities with excellent
people, technical, conceptual and decision-making skills and the ability to represent the
Department with confidence in engagements with internal and external clients, as well as other
Departmental institutions. Working knowledge of legislation and guidelines relevant to health
care, infrastructure and infrastructure design i.e. PN 187, PN 180, NCS, IUSS, OHSC.
Demonstrable computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook etc.), excellent
report writing and presentation skills. Ability to think critically and analytically, function
independently and within a team context, possess strong leadership qualities as well as being
confident, self-motivated and shows initiative. Sound interpersonal, supervisory, communication
and conflict management skills. Knowledge of budgeting processes, financial management, the
levying and collection of fees in terms of applicable legislation.
DUTIES : Conduct health facility inspections and formulate resultant decisions in line with Western Cape
(Municipal, Provincial – PN187 as amended, PN 180) and National legislation. Effective and
efficient communication with all stakeholders and advise health facility management on
technical, clinical and operational aspects relating to corrective steps where facilities do not
conform to governing legislation. Review building plans (facility layouts and design in terms of
current clinical best practice and legislation). Offer support to the licensing process of Health
Establishments in the Province, under the direction of the Deputy Director: Licensing and
Inspectorate. Supervise support staff and assist with the management duties of the division.
Knowledge of budgeting processes, financial management, the levying and collection of fees in
terms of applicable legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 3303
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/246 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or Degree.
Experience: Appropriate relevant experience in Finance. Proven Supervisory experience.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge in financial administration. Supervisory
experience in Management of budget, transfer payment process (Equitable and conditional
Grant), Expenditure, revenue, losses and debts management. Knowledge of Public finance
management act, DORA, National treasury regulations, MTEF, Adjustment budget procedures,
Provincial treasury instruction, financial delegations and finance Instructions. Experience in
monthly and financial year end reporting procedures. Extensive knowledge of standards charts
of accounts (SCOA). Practical experience of LOGIS, PERSAL and BAS. Communication skill
143
written and verbal well – verbal exchange of information requiring difficult explaining as well as
tact and diplomacy. Good management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and
as part of a team. Computer skill (Power Point, Advance Excel, Word)
DUTIES : Ensure Strategic leadership in overall financial management for Cape winelands and build
relationship within internal and external stakeholders with various ecosystem. Ensuring Budget
allocation, planning, monitoring of (Equitable Share and Conditional Grants). Ensure effective
management of Expenditure, revenue, debts, assets, and liability accounts. Administering the
contracting process in accordance with departmental standard operating procedure, signing of
SLA and monitoring NPO financial performance. Review and submit to Head Office monthly,
quarterly finance reporting and IFS/AFS inputs to ensure accuracy and completeness. Act as
Audit liaison official between the district and external auditors. Facilitated the written-off
processes on irrecoverable debts, losses and maintain relevant registers for reporting
unauthorized, irregular fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Management of staff including staff
performance, R&S process, training and general support of staff. Provide guidance and training
to Sub- district Finance officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TI Sebezela Tel No: (023) 348-8017
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a practical test and competency assessment as part of the interview process. The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Cape Winelands District
Office for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/247 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Administration, Information Management and
Hospital Information Systems. Appropriate experience in the supervision and management of
staff. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Must be willing and
able to perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In depth Knowledge of Data
and Information Management linked to the various Hospital Information Systems used.
Computer literacy in MS Package. Practical workable knowledge of Clinicom, HealthBI, Sinjani,
National and Provincial Indicators and related Hospital Information Systems. Excellent
interpersonal and communication skills with a strong sense of responsibility. Excellent
Leadership skills and the ability to manage and coordinate a large component. The ability to
interpret and analyse management reports as well as excellent report writing skills.
DUTIES : Preparation and implementation of Information Systems at the Hospital. Ensuring effective
Information Management and Support to all role players within the Hospital to ensure efficient
and effective management of Hospital Performance Data. Providing technical support in terms
of hardware and related systems to end-users, including training of users on Clinicom and
various related Health Information Systems. Ensuring the Hospital Operational needs are met
in terms of IT related Systems, Hardware and Network Infrastructure. Ensuring quality data is
provided to Hospital Management and FBU Heads within the Hospital. Maintain compliance
with all aspects of Information Management and ensure reporting deadlines are met. Coordinate
and provide input regarding various internal and external audit activities for the Hospital.
Management of staff within the Information Management component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cajada Tel No: (021) 402-6594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will be subjected to
a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/248 : MEDICAL ORTHOTIST PROSTHETIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOTIC AND PROSTHETIC
CENTRE, PINELANDS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA
as a Medical Orthotist and Prosthetist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Orthotist and Prosthetist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Orthotist Prosthetist. One-year relevant experience
144
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Orthotist Prosthetist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Orthotist Prosthetist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Orthotist Prosthetist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of
20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Orthotist
Prosthetist. Minimum of 21-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Orthotist Prosthetist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel for outreach clinics and work overtime if necessary.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Technical Skills: Proficiency in designing and fabricating
orthotic and prosthetic devices. Anatomical Knowledge: Understanding of human anatomy and
biomechanics. Interpersonal Skills: Ability to communicate effectively with patients and
healthcare professionals. Problem-Solving: Skill in diagnosing issues with devices and making
necessary adjustments. Manual Dexterity: Precision and skill in handling tools and materials for
creating custom devices. Computer literacy skills with competency in MS Office package (MS
word, PowerPoint etc.) other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
DUTIES : Patient Assessment: Evaluate patients' needs by examining medical histories, physical
conditions, and understanding their requirements for orthotic or prosthetic devices. Design and
Fabrication: Design and create custom orthotic and prosthetic devices, ensuring they meet the
specific needs and measurements of each patient. Fitting and Adjustment: Fit and adjust the
devices to ensure proper function, comfort, and alignment. This involves multiple fittings and
modifications. Patient Education: Educate patients on the use, care, and maintenance of their
orthotic or prosthetic devices. Follow-Up Care: Provide ongoing support and adjustments to
devices as necessary, ensuring optimal long-term use and patient satisfaction. Collaboration:
Work with other healthcare professionals, such as doctors and physical therapists, to develop
comprehensive treatment plans for patients. Provide and supervise the training of students
MOPs and In-service trainees. Comprehensive clinical governance and Clinical Practice review,
including the implementation of clinical protocols, guidelines, and SOPs. Participate in MOP
Centre meetings and perform duties delegated by the CMOP including acting position as
CMOP. Maintenance, Admin and Development: Machinery, tools and equipment in good
working condition. Correct material and Stats.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs M Brink Tel No: (021) 531-5300
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/written and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered for
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/249 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Harry Comay Hospital, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma /Degree in Human
Resource related field. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources (i.e. Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, PERSAL and Recruitment and
Selection, Labour relations and Training. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point, Teams and Outlook). Ability to function as a
team player, with or without supervision. Ability to function in a stressful environment and cope
with a heavy workload. Leadership capabilities, managerial and organisation skills. Appropriate
planning and administration skills. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and
prescripts. Appropriate PERSAL knowledge.
DUTIES : Monitoring control measures for all allowances. Ensure Audit Compliance (CMI and HRAAP).
Appropriate utilization of overtime budget. Management of service benefits. Ensure efficient
personnel administration and leave management. Effective Management of incapacity, Pilir
applications and WCA. Ensure pension administration. Effective management of paysheets and
Commuted overtime. Provide training, support and guidance to staff and line managers within
the scope of profile. Effective management and development of subordinates. Facilitate sub-
district Training Committee meetings, assist with compiling of WSP and report training stats to
District Office. Compile Misconduct and Grievance register. Administer the recruitment and
selection. Oversee and administer performance management process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Thom Tel No: (044) 814-1099
145
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates could be
subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/250 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Heldeberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography Diagnostic in respect of South
African qualified employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography in Diagnostic in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography Diagnostic in respect of
South African qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA in Radiography in Diagnostic in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom
it is not required to perform Community Services as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum
of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography Diagnostic in
respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography in Diagnostic in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work weekends as required, as well as to
participate in a 24- hour service delivery while being on call and travel to outreach facility if
necessary. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Physically able to perform the duties required.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of protocols, radio protection, quality assurance
and equipment safety. Knowledge of PACS (Picture Archiving and Communication System) and
Radiology Information Systems. Good interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of a
multidisciplinary team. Basic computer and administration skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the smooth running of the diagnostic imaging department, including providing
professional service to patients. General care, radiation protection and safety of patients.
Responsibility for radiographic and Computed Radiography (CR) processing equipment.
Complete CLINICOM, Stats and all PACS and RIS activities. Optimal use, care, and quality
assurance of equipment are interconnected practices that collectively ensure equipment
performance, safety, and longevity. Assist with the training of new radiographers, community
service radiographers and students, as well as to participate in self-development learning
programs. Support services to Manager and multidisciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fatyela Tel No: (021) 850-4700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.” Candidates, who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other vacant Radiographer (Diagnostic) posts within
the Chief Director Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/251 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RECOURSE MANAGEMENT (RECRUITMENT AND
SELECTION)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
experience in Human Resource Management: Recruitment and Selection. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent verbal and written communication. Ability to work in a team.
Computer skills. Extensive knowledge of HR policies, practices relevant to Recruitment and
Selection.
DUTIES : Supervise and develop subordinates. Compile, maintain and update databases and provide
stats. Assist with grievances/disputes linked to recruitment and selection. Ensure accurate paid
146
and unpaid employment contract are timeously issued. Render a recruitment and selection
function.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Alexander Tel No: (021) 404 2271
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will be subjected to
a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/252 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (REVENUE AND ADMISSIONS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post.
Experience: Appropriate practical experience in a Hospital Fees and/or Patient Administration
related environment. Appropriate knowledge of Medical Records and Case management.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel. Willingness to
work after hours when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to meet and to
recognize and respond to problematic matters. Good system management skills (Clinicom, AR,
BAS and JAC). Advanced computer skills in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Good supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the Hospital Fees, Patient Administration and Medical Records Division, Release of
Journals on BAS, Deposit Day Ends, and Deposit Confirmation of Monies Banked, Clinicom
transactions and Accounts Receivable transactions. Submit Monthly Reports to District Office
and Head Office on Hospital Fees/Revenue related transactions with regard to- In Year
Monitoring, Revenue Action Plan, Billing and BAS Recon. Effectively Generate income, the
management thereof and regular follow-ups. Manage and Reporting on the Institutions Revenue
Collection / Budget. Render administrative Support to the Case Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Roman Tel No: (044) 203 - 7265
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/253 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification. Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
support services administration and contract management experience. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office Excel, Word, and Outlook). Excellent
organisational skills, the ability to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge of contract management. Knowledge of waste management and government
transport. Knowledge of telecommunication, porter, and laundry services.
DUTIES : Responsible for support services including government transport, laundry services, porter
services, mortuary service, telecommunication, hospital accommodation facilities and grounds.
Responsible for contract management relating to outsourced service providers i.e., security
service, waste management, laundry service, pest control and garden service. Responsible for
supervision of staff including staff performance and disciplinary matters. Training and
development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJ Owen Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates may be
required to do a practical test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts
within Witzenberg Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/254 : STATE ACCOUNTANT
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
147
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRAs) of the post.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Hospital patient fees or a health-related claims
environment. Appropriate experience with raising of invoices; submitting claims to medical aid
schemes. Appropriate experience in a HIS (Clinicom/Accounts Receivable System/Cognis
Viewer/BAS. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness
to travel and spend periods away from the office. Competencies (Working knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of In-Hospital Patient fees or in a health-related claims environment, medical
aid/scheme claims, HIS (Health Information system)/Accounts Receivable System. Knowledge
of the Hospital Fees policies and procedures. Knowledge of UPFS tariff structures. Ability to
perform Medical Aid/EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) related transactions in the billing
systems. Ability to perform billing related transactions for State Departments i.e. RAF (Road
Accident Fund), SANDF (South African National Defence Force), SAPS (South African Police
Services), DCS (Department of Correctional Services) and COID (Compensation for Injury on
Duty). Computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications (Word, and Excel).
DUTIES : Oversee and manage the end-to-end Primary Healthcare (PHC) billing process. Ensure
accurate data management, invoice generation, quality control, and timely submission of
invoices to medical aid schemes. Perform eligibility checks and resolve billing discrepancies
while ensuring compliance with medical aid requirements. Ensure complete and correctly raised
invoices for PHC/RAF/IOD funded patients. Monitor, review and authorise the submission of
funded patients’ accounts on the billing system. Review and authorise the reconciling of monies
received (Medical Aid/RAF/COID) between AR and BAS. Manage the outstanding debt and
action medical aid rejections according to policy. Manage all available system and 3rd party
reports to ensure policy compliance-make data accessible in a simplified way for specific target
groups and stakeholders. Extract and manage all relevant billing system reports by investigating
and fixing errors. Supervision of staff in line with HR policies/Staff Development/People
Management Administration/ Maintain Staff Discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Abrahams Tel No: (021) 483 6424 or call on MS Teams
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/255 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (NURSE RELIEF TEAM) (X5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract Posts Until 31 January 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
Annual salary plus 37% in lieu of service benefits.
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade1: None Grade2: A minimum of 10 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in
General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing care processes,
procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer literacy in MS
Office package. Good Communication Skills. Report Writing. Appropriate experience working
with Mental Health Care users in a Psychiatric ward.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a professional/legal and
ecosystem framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in
training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KP Tukutezi Tel No: (021) 370 1274
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be subjected to
a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
148
POST 18/256 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Fisantekraal CDC and Scottsdene CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work after hours.
Willingness to rotate within the Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of grievance procedure and disciplinary legislation. Knowledge
and understanding of nursing Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing
Standard of Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word and
Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality comprehensive nursing care
within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain ethical practice within legal and regulatory
frameworks. Maintain a constructive working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the
Primary Health Care Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ntlabathi-Forosi Tel No: (021) 826 2202 (Fisantekraal CDC) Ms. A Mullins Tel No: (021)
810 8121 (Scottsdene CDC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/257 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse and midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate to other departments. Willing to
work shifts, including weekends, public holidays and night duty. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer skill in Ms Word. The ability to function independently under
pressure. Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection Prevention Control, control measures and
practices. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality patient care. Practice nursing
and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the nursing profession
(nursing legislation and ethics). Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and
other stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Oerson Tel No: (028) 713 - 8686
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
149
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within
Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected
to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/258 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna/Bitou Sub District (Stationed at Knysna Hospital)
REQUIRMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse and midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as a professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate / recognizable experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate / recognizable experience after
registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to rotate to other departments. Willing to work shifts, including weekends,
public holidays and night duty. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic computer skill in Ms
Word. The ability to function independently under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing Practices,
Infection Prevention Control, control measures and practices. Excellent communication skills
(both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality patient care. Practice nursing
and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the nursing profession
(nursing legislation and ethics). Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and
other stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CG Wagener Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within
Knysna/Bitou Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/259 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1 TO 4 (X7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 per annum
Grade 2: R379 308 per annum
Grade 3: R570 267 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Western, Eastern, Southern and Northern Division, Riversdale, Vredenburg and Worcester
EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the Critical Care
Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. Grade 2: Successful completion of the Critical Care
Assistant programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA)
programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme
or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B
Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner.
150
Registration with a Professional Council: Grade 1: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic
(CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma.
Grade 3: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP.
Grade 4: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic with National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years
after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years after
registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP– None Grade 4: Registered
Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered
Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s
-10 years after registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and mental fitness.
Competencies (knowledge/skills)
DUTIES : Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside definitive emergency care within defined
emergency time frames within and across geographic and clinical service platforms. Make use
of all communication tools as provided by the Employer to facilitate safe communication in
relation to patient care protocols. Effectively maintaining Admin Function: complete manual and
electronic patient care reports and trip authority log sheets. Maintenance of Emergency Vehicles
and Equipment. Provide effective support to the supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
Ensure effective communication with regards to patients, colleagues, other services and
members of the Public.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Nankoo (Operational Manager - Rural) Tel No: (044) 802 2500/21. Ms S Hartley
(Operational Manager – Metropole) Tel No: (021) 932 1966
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates will be
expected to undergo a practical assessment. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status”
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/260 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Chronic Disease Management (X2 Posts)
Roving Western Clinics (X1 Post)
Southern/Wester Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification that allows
registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-
Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness to travel between
PHC facilities in the SWS. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer literacy. Good
Interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work as part of a team or independently. Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform the following services or acts under the direct personal supervision of a pharmacist:
Assist with reading and preparation of a prescription, the selection, manipulation or
compounding of the medicine, the labelling and supply of the medicine in an appropriate
container following the interpretation and evaluation of the prescription by a pharmacist. Assist
with the provision of instructions regarding the correct use of medicine supplied and information
to individuals to promote health. Assist with the distribution, control of and ordering of medicine
and scheduled substances. Assist with the compounding or manufacturing of a non-sterile or
sterile medicine or scheduled substance according to a formula and standard operating
procedures approved. Assist with general housekeeping and administrative tasks. Support
facilities with managing and expanding chronic medicine access through all differentiated
models of care e.g. home deliveries of chronic medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Osmond Tel No: (021) 202-0981
151
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates registered in the
category “Community Pharmacy” may also apply but must be willing to obtain registration in the
category “Institutional Pharmacy” within 12 months and must work under direct supervision of a
pharmacist during this period. Failure to comply will lead to the termination of services in the
case of those appointed from outside the public service. In the case of serving employees, the
employee will return to his/her previous post. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/261 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (MEDICAL RECORDS)
Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate practical experience in a Hospital Patient
Administration and Revenue related environment. Experience: Appropriate practical experience
in a Hospital Patient Administration and Revenue related environment. Inherent requirements
of the job: Excellent, written and verbal communication skills and ability to maintain
confidentiality. Prepared to work 12-hour shifts which include night duty, weekends and public
holidays. This includes rotational basis within the patient administration department (Specialist
admissions, Casualty admissions and medical records). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good system management skills (Clinicom, AR and HECTIS), Advance computer skills in MS
Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge and experience in Clinicom,
Accounts receivable Systems and Hospital and Emergency Centre Tracking Information
System, UPFS manual, Hospital memorandum 18 and PFMA (Public Management Act).
Knowledge of National/Provincial archiving Act, Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA)
and Financial Instructions. Knowledge of Batho Pele principals and Public Service Code of
Conduct. Competency and experience that focuses on key performance areas of the post.
DUTIES : Accurate debtor assessment and medical aid eligibility of patients. Opening and retrieving of
patient folder and patients search and registration. Effective revenue collection and safekeeping
of patient valuables. Effective registry, daily drawing and filing of folders, maintenance and
control of folder movement and follow-up of unknown patients. Archiving and disposal of
folders/documents according to regulations and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Kannemeyer Tel No: (021) 860 2590 / Doneethe.Kannemeyer@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATION : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates may be subjected
to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/262 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
experience in administration. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime and
provide relief in other departments as operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of revenue generation audit compliance, handling of revenue, receipt value books
and safe. Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good communication skills (written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Renders clerical patient support, admissions, discharges, and transfers on Hospital system.
Render clerical support by ordering of resources and stock, assist with stocktaking. Support of
supervisor and colleagues. Support to Head of Nursing with regards to staff administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PE Robyn Tel No: (022) 487 9204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/263 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification. Grade 12/Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate administrative experience in a hospital environment with appropriate experience in
152
Clinicom and Logis. Inherent requirements of the job: Required to work in health environment
where infectious diseases are treated. Required to work shifts on day/night duty, weekends and
public holidays. Required to work overtime on short notice. Must be willing to rotate in different
departments within the Nursing Component and/or relief colleagues. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Good verbal and writing skills.
Be able to work accurately and under pressure. Computer literacy in MS Office Suite (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook Access).
DUTIES : Professional, confidential, effective and efficient patient administration. Contribute to effective
patient admission system and register patients by performing Clinicom, revenue generation,
bed management and booking of patient transport functions. Ensure that all UPFS functions are
performed. Management and administration of equipment by ordering, monitor and control of
consumables and equipment, manually as well as electronic processing on LOGIS Professional
and loyal conduct. Provide general administrative support to line managers and Nurse
Management. Relief of colleagues. Knowledge on Information management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 or anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/264 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Bella Vista Clinic (X1 Post)
Tulbagh Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work 8-hours (i.e., Monday-
Friday) and overtime when required. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). The ability to accept accountability
and responsibility with good interpersonal skills, the ability to maintain confidentiality and
excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Compile headcount daily, weekly, and monthly data. Capturing of
data and compliments and complains on SINJANI. Appointments list for follow up clients be
generated from Tier.net Folder drawn according to Tier.net appointment list. Folders prepared
for next day (blood results filed/ stickers printed). If new client facility folder to be opened- correct
stationery is placed in folder and stickers to be printed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wawini Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts
within Witzenberg Sub-district for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/265 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or Equivalent. Experience: Appropriate
experience in Health Information Management and in Health-Related Information Systems.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work after
hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge with regards departmental information
systems and advance computer skills in MS Office. Ability to interpret, analyse and present
health information. Good numerical, communication, analytical thinking skills and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Data management - submission and capturing. Assist with data quality monitoring,
maintenance, and resolution – validation, verification, and data/trend analysis. Perform an office
administration role - i.e., minute taking, filing, copies and logistical arrangements & assist with
preparing presentations and reports. Provide general support to all Information Management
and HAST clerks at facility level. Assist with internal and external objective audits. Assist with
Information Communication technology requests.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Adams Tel No: (021) 815-8560
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant Administration Clerk: Information Management posts within
the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
153
POST 18/266 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
registry experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office, Outlook).
Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient Registry service for People Management. Control of Archive,
including disposal of files/records. Handling of telephonic enquiries. Render optimal support to
supervisor. Effective and efficient utilisation of all resources. Perform related administrative
tasks as instructed by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Van Der Westhuizen Tel No: (021) 370-5050
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/267 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with extensive experience
that focuses on the Key Performance Area's (KRA's) of post. Experience: Appropriate
experience in Supply Chain Management in a buying capacity. The procurement of equipment,
provisioning of goods and services, After effects (patient specific items) and consumables.
Appropriate experience of using the Electronic Procurement System (ePS) quotation tool, SEB,
CSD and Syspro. Appropriate experience that focuses on the Key Performance Areas of the
post. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Extensive knowledge of the SYSPRO/LOGIS or a
similar procurement management system. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), National, Provincial Treasury Regulations and the Accounting Officer's System of the
Department of Health including delegations, Supply Chain Management and the ePS
(Electronic Procurement System). Knowledge of tenders and contracts management. Timeous
completion of work with minimal errors. Language proficiency and ability to liaise with
companies and departments. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Knowledge and
skills of: Syspro / Logis Procurement System, Electronic Procurement System(ePS) and
Western Cape Supplier Evidence Bank (WSEB) and Central Supplier Database (CSD).
Extensive knowledge of the SYSPRO/LOGIS or a similar procurement management system.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National, Provincial Treasury
Regulations and the Accounting Officer's System of the Department of Health including
delegations, Supply Chain Management and the ePS (Electronic Procurement System).
Knowledge of tenders and contracts management. Timeous completion of work with minimal
errors. Language proficiency and ability to liaise with companies and departments. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Knowledge and skills of: Syspro / Logis Procurement
System, Electronic Procurement System(ePS) and Western Cape Supplier Evidence Bank
(WSEB) and Central Supplier Database (CSD).
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient procurement of Equipment and Services are done in time, as per
approved Budget. Receiving and evaluation of proposals / Quotations, making supplier
recommendations, Correct placing of orders according to SCM policies and Correct
implementation of procedures and directives relating to procurement. Coordinate and facilitate
the Sourcing management process, Record and System management, Effective communication
and overall responsiveness. Provide support to colleagues and supervisors (internal and
external) File source documents. Perform other tasks as provided by the supervisor of Supply
Chain Management. Handle telephonic and written enquiries from suppliers (companies) and
user departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Sampson Tel No: (021) 938-5172
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/268 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CDC
154
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with SANC as a
Staff Nurse. Grade 2: A Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Staff Nurse with SANC. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse with SANC.
Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required to work shifts, public holidays, night duty, after
hours and weekends. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to operational
needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to work in the
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge and understanding of nursing Code of Ethics and
Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing Standard of Practice and scope of practice.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical nursing care
Effective utilization of physical and financial resources Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Actively participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ngcaba Tel No: (021) 508-4611
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with
the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable
on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for other vacant Staff Nurse within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/269 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate (GETC) /Grade
9 (Std. 7) Experience: Appropriate cleaning and household experience in a hospital environment
and in the use of cleaning equipment and stock. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts, including weekends, night duty, public holidays and standby duty. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of infection prevention and control, hospitality, safety and
hygiene standards. Ability to work in a team environment, independently and self-driven.
Computer literacy (Microsoft Office).
DUTIES : Responsible for overall planning, control, organising, performing and coordinating tasks related
to household, food serving and hygiene services. Ensure the effective use, maintenance,
ordering, safe-keeping and monitoring of supplies and equipment. Supervise and manage
personnel in their performance, as well as all other human resource related duties (i.e., staff
performance and discipline). Implement and monitor policies, programmes, regulations,
practices, procedures and standards. Provide an effective relief, coordination and support
service to management. Support, guide and direct personnel under his/her supervision.
Maintain a high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the hospital ward.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 and/ or anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/270 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WORKSHOP) 6/8TH POSTS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R171 240 (6/8th) per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
administrative support service experience in a workshop in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime and provide relief in other departments as
operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills in MS Office Package.
Good interpersonal and communication skills, Ability to work independently, and as part of a
team. Ability to maintain confidentiality and problem-solving and conflict management with good
organizational skills. Officials must have a good understanding of the daily running of a
workshop department within a hospital environment.
DUTIES : Assist with the procurement of goods and services for workshop department. Assist general
technical services administration. Assisting with maintaining an effective filling system and
attending to relevant queries (verbal, written and systematically). Responsible for management
155
of the stock within the warehouse in the workshop and ensure safe keeping of stock. Support
the Supervisor, colleagues, and members of the Management team and co-operate with
external stakeholders. Relieve in other departments as operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Roos Tel No: (021) 440-3192
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will be subjected to
a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/271 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
cleaning experience in a health facility. Inherent requirements of the job: Required to work in
health environment where infectious diseases are treated. Willingness to work shifts including
night duty, overtime, weekends, public holidays as well as relief in other departments within the
hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge of cleaning procedures and the
use of cleaning equipment (electronic and otherwise). Knowledge of hygiene and occupational
health and safety. Able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Responsible for general cleaning by safe and effective use of consumables/ resources which
complies with hygienic, occupational health and safety and infection control risk prevention
standards. Renders support services to Household Supervisor/ Manager to contribute to
domestic outcomes. Contributes to effective utilisation and functioning of equipment. Apply
correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/ waste products which complies with legal,
hygienic, Occupational Health and Safety and Infection Control standards. Assist with routine
stock control and safekeeping of non-surgical equipment and cleaning consumables. Assist with
serving of meals and beverages.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 or anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/272 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach Knysna/Bitou Sub District (Stationed at Knysna Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
driving experience including transportation of employees and delivery of goods. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Appropriate knowledge of Government Motor Transport Handbook 1 of
2019 and Circular 4 of 2000. Appropriate knowledge of routine, maintenance, inspections for
defects on vehicles and safe driving skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and
to work independently, unsupervised and in a team. Good interpersonal, communication and
safe driving skills. Ability to do strenuous physical labour. Inherent requirements of the job: A
valid Code B/EB/C1 driver’s license and Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work
overtime and perform standby duties. Willingness to perform administrative and relieve duties
when needed in the Support component of the Institution.
DUTIES : Transport goods, services, clients and personnel from one point to another. Maintenance of
prescribed logbooks, trip authorities and administrative duties of driving. Conduct routine
maintenance, inspecting on vehicles and timely reporting of defects. Adhere to Departmental
codes and procedures. Ensure that all vehicles are kept clean and tidy. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Quine Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed candidates may be
subject to competency testing. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts
within Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
POST 18/273 : MEDICAL SPECIAIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY) (SESSIONAL) (4 HOURS PER
WEEK)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
156
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification. Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Technical
skills appropriate for investigation. MMED in Psychiatry and/or FC Psychiatry (SA)
qualifications. Facilitation of management system. Effective and efficient administration.
Communication including report generation, letter writing, consultation. Clinical skills required
of a Medical Specialist Psychiatrist, including assessment, diagnosis and treatment in a
psychiatry outpatient setting.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and Administration. Teaching and
Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr I Lewis Tel No: (021) 404 5381 or Ian.lewis@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
157