PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 40 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 31 OCTOBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE: Department of Cooperative
Governance. Kindly note that the post of Scanning Operator with Ref no: DCOG-SCO
advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 39 dated 24 October 2025 with the closing
date of 07 November 2025 was advertised with incorrect email address. The applications
must be submitted on the electronic form by clicking the link
https://forms.office.com/r/PN6NXFhsjz For the enquires, Ms S Chiloane, Tel No: 012 334
0887/ 060 994 5930 or ictbusinessapplications@cogta.gov.za Applicants are
encouraged to re-apply. The closing date is extended to 14 November 2025.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the
following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 39 of 2025 dated 24
October 2025 with the closing of 07 November 2025, (1) Admin Officer: Immovable Asset
Register (12 Months contract), Centre: Head Office (Pretoria) Ref no: 2025/126 (X5
Posts), Email: Recruitment25-66@dpw.gov.za, all five advertised post have been
withdrawn (2) Administrative Clerk: Immovable Asset Register (Verification)(12 Months
contract), Centre: Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2025/131 (X12 Posts), Email:
Recruitment25-67@dpw.gov.za, Only eight (08) posts will be withdrawn. Please be
informed that all other advertised posts on circular 39, the closing date will be extended
to the 14 November 2025.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
Defence A 04 - 12
Electricity And Energy B 13 - 15
Employment And Labour C 16 - 18
Forestry, Fisheries And The Environment D 19 - 22
Health E 23 - 24
Higher Education And Training F 25 - 26
Home Affairs G 27 - 28
Independent Police Investigative Directorate H 29 - 31
Justice And Constitutional Development I 32 - 40
National Prosecuting Authority J 41 - 42
National School Of Government K 43 - 45
National Treasury L 46 - 54
Office Of The Chief Justice M 55 - 64
Public Service Aand Administration N 65 - 67
Trade Industry And Competition O 68 - 72
Water And Sanitation P 73 - 92
Free State Q 93 - 96
Mpumalanga R 97 - 146
Northern Cape S 147 - 150
Western Cape T 151 - 192
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION OFFICER
REF NO: LOGDIV/01/40/25/01
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Procurement Service Centre, Eco-Origin Office Park Block E,
Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent with relevant academic
qualification at NQF Level 6 specialising in Supply Chain Management, Public
Administration or related qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of
three (3) years’ experience in a Provisioning/Procurement Environment at a
supervisor level. Special requirements (skills needed): The successful
candidate must have an in-depth understanding of Government’s Revised
Framework for Strategic management process and annual performance plans,
and the DOD strategic management process and Framework that provides the
norms and standards within which the Departmental results-based planning,
budgeting, reporting, risk management, and audit process are executed in the
realisation of the Defence mandate. In-depth knowledge of the Procurement
System. Advanced knowledge in respect of the development/formulation,
implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures; analytical skills,
excellent strategic management and negotiation skills with good interpersonal
relations and a superior level of verbal and written communication capabilities.
Ability to identify strategic gaps and propose viable solutions. Exceptional time
4
management skills with sensitivity to deadlines. Good understanding of civil-
military relations, along with a solid understanding of current defence policy
and policy issues. Excellent demonstrable end-user computer skills in all MS
Office packages in accordance with department-specific service writing
conventions, accompanied by highly developed presentation skills and
presentation software proficiency. The incumbent must be assertive and self-
driven, innovative and creative, solution-oriented and able to work under
stressful situations, very strict timescales and have the ability to maintain high
levels of confidentiality. Ability to successfully comply with the security
clearance processes of the Department of Defence. Managerial and
Leadership Skills, and Numerical skills to assess price-to-value ratios. Report
writing skills. Ability to assess data regarding procurement trends. Ability to
identify inconsistencies regarding procurement.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties:
coordinating and monitoring procurement plans and requisitions; developing
and implementing demand and acquisition plans in line with operational needs;
coordinating procurement processes, including specifications, sourcing, bid
processes, and supplier management; managing the acquisition process in
accordance with Supply Chain Management (SCM) policies and Defence
Regulations; ensuring compliance with SCM policies, National Treasury (NT)
Regulations, and applicable legal frameworks; ensuring correct documentation
and compliance of procurement processes; maintaining provisioning systems
(e.g., LOGIS) and stock cataloguing standards; managing provisioning
functions such as inventory planning, ordering, and receipt of goods and
services; ensuring correct classification and coding of items using supply
cataloguing systems; implementing processes for provisioning item
classification and control; overseeing inventory levels, administration, and
conducting periodic stock-taking and reconciliations; addressing obsolete,
surplus, and redundant stock; monitoring warehousing and logistical flow of
materials; packing all anti-magnetic stores in the appropriate anti-magnetic
warehouse facility; ensuring adherence to PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury
Regulations, SCM frameworks, and DOD supply policies; assisting with audit
preparations and implementing audit recommendations; maintaining accurate
records for audit and reporting purposes; preparing regular reports on
procurement status, stock levels, and performance indicators; maintaining
procurement registers and provisioning databases, drafting internal
correspondence, and preparing monthly or quarterly reports; providing
leadership and guidance to subordinates; and ensuring skills development and
performance management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Col. N.O. Thom Tel No: (012) 402 2760/Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of these posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE AGREEMENT REF NO:
SANAD/01/40/25/01
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : SA Naval Armament Depot Simon’s Town, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent with relevant academic
qualification at NQF Level 6 specialising in Supply Chain Management, Public
Management or related qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in contract management at a supervisor level. Special
requirements (skills needed): The successful candidate must have an in-depth
understanding of the Public Service Act and regulations, the Defence Act and
the Service Level Agreements framework. In-depth knowledge of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of development/formulation,
implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures. Excellent analytical
skills, numerical and presentation skills. Good verbal and written
communication capabilities. Ability to identify strategic gaps and propose viable
solutions. Exceptional time management skills with sensitivity to deadlines.
Good understanding of the Military Discipline Code and the Disciplinary
Supplementary Measures Act, and Regulations. Sound knowledge of the
Labour Relations Act, PFMA, PPPFA and Treasury regulations. Excellent
5
demonstrable end-user computer skills in all MS Office packages in
accordance with department-specific service writing conventions,
accompanied by highly developed presentation skills and presentation
software proficiency. The incumbent must be assertive and self-driven,
innovative and creative, solution-oriented and able to work under stressful
situations. Ability to maintain high levels of confidentiality and must be able to
successfully comply with the security clearance processes of the Department
of Defence. Management and Leadership Skills. Report writing skills.
Understanding of Bid processes, contract drafting, procurement and
acquisition processes. Risk management. Proven dispute resolution skills.
Good interpersonal and project management skills. Strong negotiation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties: liaising
with service providers to establish and maintain service agreements; ensuring
all services rendered meet the agreed performance indicators and service
delivery requirements; developing and implementing drafts of service
agreements (Pers, Log, OHS, etc.); publishing service agreements; ensuring
compliance by service providers as stipulated in the service agreement,
policies, and regulations; intervening in the event of non-compliance;
investigating non-compliance complaints; re-negotiating service agreements to
suit service providers and end-users; monitoring processes to ensure
compliance by service providers; ensuring services rendered align with agreed
performance indicators and compliance frameworks; generating performance
reports and conducting service review meetings with stakeholders; providing
technical and advisory support, contract implementation support,
administrative support, and dispute management; offering leadership and
guidance to subordinates; and ensuring skills development and performance
management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Col. N.O. Thom Tel No: (012) 402 2760 & Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402
2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/03 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: LOGDIV/01/40/25/02
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Logistics Division, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent with Secretarial Diploma or
related with a minimum of three (3) years’ relevant experience in rendering a
support service to senior management. Special requirements (skills needed):
Language skills and the ability to communicate effectively with people from
diverse backgrounds and levels. Proficiency in Microsoft Office. Good
telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
High level of reliability. Good people skills. Sound organisational skills. Self-
management and motivation. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies,
prescripts, and procedures. Basic knowledge of financial administration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing a comprehensive
secretarial and office support service to ensure the efficient functioning of the
office. Key duties include receiving and directing telephone calls, handling
correspondence, scheduling and coordinating meetings and appointments,
taking minutes, and recording the engagements of the Chief Logistics. The
incumbent will exercise discretion in prioritising meeting requests, maintain the
diary of the Chief, liaise with travel agencies to make travel arrangements, and
process travel and subsistence claims. Additional responsibilities include
arranging meetings and events, processing invoices related to the Chief’s
activities, drafting routine correspondence and reports, filing and maintaining
office records, and administering leave registers, telephone accounts, and
related office matters. The Personal Assistant will further manage incoming and
outgoing correspondence, handle the procurement of standard office items
such as stationery and refreshments, collect relevant documents to support the
Chief’s preparation for meetings, and ensure proper security of the office by
processing and safeguarding classified documents in accordance with policies,
controlling the key register, and ensuring the office is secured when
6
unattended. The incumbent will also operate and maintain office equipment to
ensure functionality and provide general support to the Division as required.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/04 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Works Maintenance Unit Gauteng, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/03/A
Works Maintenance Unit Western Cape, Wynberg, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/03/B
Works Maintenance Unit Northern Cape, Diskobolos, Kimberley Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/03/C
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three (3)
years’ relevant experience in Public Administration, Human Resources or
related environment. Special requirements (skills needed): Demonstrable
competency in acting independently, Professional, Accountable and with
Credibility. General computer literacy. Language skills and the ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette and above-average planning and
organising skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to
identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge and understanding of
relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public
service sector. The ability to collect and capture data. Knowledge of Regional
Facilities Interface Management (RFIM) processes and works maintenance
procedures.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for providing supervisory oversight
and delivering comprehensive clerical, personnel, financial, and maintenance
administration support services to ensure effective service delivery in line with
prescribed policies and procedures. The successful candidate will manage
correspondence, filing systems, registers, and databases; handle routine
enquiries; and facilitate the accurate distribution, processing, and safekeeping
of documentation. Key responsibilities include maintaining leave and
attendance registers, managing personnel records, coordinating travel and
accommodation arrangements, and supervising subordinates through task
allocation, performance monitoring, and on-the-job training. The incumbent will
also provide financial administration support by capturing and updating
expenditure records, verifying subsistence and travel claims, and managing
petty cash and telephone accounts. In addition, the role entails coordinating
and administering regional maintenance activities by preparing, verifying, and
processing documentation related to maintenance functions, as well as
monitoring and updating records, registers, and statistics to support
compliance and accountability. The suitable candidate will ensure effective
records and document management through the application of registry and
archival procedures, safeguard accurate information systems for audit
readiness, and liaise with stakeholders to provide feedback on routine
enquiries, thereby contributing to the overall efficiency of the RFIM Section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj W.L. Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 674 6717/WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012)
402 2824
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/05 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : 10 Air Depot, Thaba Tshwane Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/04/A
7
Central Procurement Service Centre, Eco-Origin Office Park Block E,
Centurion Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/04/B
Naval Stores Depot Wingsfield, Cape Town Ref No: NSD/01/40/25/01
SA Naval Armament Depot Simon’s Town, Cape Town Ref No:
SANAD/01/40/25/02 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three (3)
years’ experience in a Supply Chain Management environment. Special
requirements (skills needed): Computer-literate. The candidate must have
demonstrable competency in acting independently, professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to work independently.
Knowledge in procurement of goods and services, provisioning, industry
practice and relations in terms of goods and services, sound accounting
practice, budget expenditure, order administration system, payments of goods
and services, Quality Management and purchasing management. Knowledge
of inventory management. CALMIS.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for supervising and rendering a
variety of routine, directive-intensive clerical and administrative duties in
support of the unit’s operational and logistical requirements; this includes
providing logistic support services, controlling and maintaining personnel files,
and ensuring the proper filing and safekeeping of all records for audit and
compliance purposes; the candidate will prepare and submit maintenance
requests, manage the general stores accounting function, ensure the secure
storage and preservation of stores, and verify stock for accuracy and
accountability; the duties further include supervising and managing
subordinates, monitoring and controlling office equipment, and assisting with
the updating and maintenance of the asset registry; the candidate will be
expected to attend unit expenditure coordinating meetings, compile and submit
minutes, and process government orders and invoices timeously and
accurately; additionally, the candidate will be required to update and maintain
directives, acts, regulations, and manuals relevant to the work environment,
perform basic calculations, compile and issue statistics, and collaborate in the
establishment and maintenance of the Work Unit’s Operational Business
Framework and Systems; the post requires administration of complex
processes including CAL administration, DAC transfer administration, victual
accounting, and ammunition submission requirements, as well as initial loss
and damage reporting, petty cash purchases, and participation in stocktaking
of main ledgers; and the candidate will also be required to conduct preliminary
loss and damage investigations, contribute to audit readiness, and ensure that
all financial and logistical administration is executed in accordance with
prescripts and regulatory frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/06 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION (X61 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 10 Air Depot, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/A
93 Ammunition Depot, Jan Kempdorp Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/B (X3
Posts)
Central Procurement Service Centre, Eco-Origin Office Park Block E,
Centurion Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/C (X4 Posts)
DOD Ammunition Depot & School of Munition, De Aar Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/D (X2 Posts)
DOD Ammunition Sub Depot Naboomspruit, Naboomspruit Ref No:
LOGDIV//01/40/25/05/E
DOD Main Ordinance Depot, TEK base, Lyttleton Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/F
DOD Main Ordnance Sub Depot Durban, Mobeni East, Durban Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/G
DOD Main Ordnance Sub Depot Wallmannsthal, Wallmannsthal Ref No:
LOGDIV//01/40/25/05/H (X2 Posts)
8
DOD Mobilization Unit, Olienhoutplaat, Bloemfontein Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/I (X6 Posts)
DOD Logistics Support Formation HQ, TEK Base, Lyttleton Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/J (X7 Posts)
DOD School of Catering, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/K (X2 Posts)
DOD School of Logistics Training, Wynberg, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/L
Logistics Division, Pretoria Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/M (X10 Posts)
Naval Stores Depot Wingfield, Cape Town Ref No: NSD/01/40/25/02 (X8
Posts)
SA Naval Armament Depot Simon’s Town, Cape Town Ref No:
SANAD01/40/25/03 (X4 Posts)
Simon’s Town Procurement Service Centre, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/05/N (X6 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No prior experience
required. Training in asset management, codification and/or procurement will
be an added advantage. Special requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of
all MS Office packages. Communicate effectively in English (written and
verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem-solving skills.
Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound organisational skills. High level of
reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing provisioning
administration services in support of the unit’s operational requirements. The
successful candidate will be required to determine needs, meet specific supply
demands, and exercise documentary control over goods, equipment,
materials, facilities, and services. Key duties include receiving, distributing,
preserving, and repacking stock for safe storage; issuing and finalising
vouchers; preparing and printing receipt vouchers; handling routine enquiries;
and registering demands on stock sub-accounts in line with CALMIS MMS
procedures. The incumbent will control stock items in warehouses to prevent
losses, maintain accurate registers, charts, and record books to monitor stock
levels, and initiate replenishment when necessary. Further responsibilities
include keeping stores neat and orderly, updating directives, acts, regulations,
and manuals relevant to provisioning, and handling routine correspondence
and records of autonomous activities. The role also entails performing basic
calculations, compiling statistics, and drafting and processing letters, notices,
memoranda, and submissions. The candidate will support the effective
functioning of internal services, accounting, transport, and depot administration
by ensuring compliance with prescribed procedures, maintaining accurate
documentation, and contributing to efficient logistical and administrative
operations within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/07 : ADMININSTRATION CLERK: (PRODUCTION) (X35 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 93 Ammunition Depot, Jan Kempdorp Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/A1
DOD Ammunition Sub Depot Naboomspruit, Naboomspruit Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/B2
DOD Logistics Support Formation HQ, TEK Base, Lyttleton Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/C3 (X12 Posts)
DOD School of Logistics Training, Wynberg, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/D4
Logistics Division, Pretoria Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/E5 (X2 Posts)
Naval Stores Depot Wingfield, Cape Town Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/F6
South African Forces Institute, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/G7
Works Maintenance Unit Eastern Cape, Port Elizabeth Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/H8 (X2 Posts)
9
Works Maintenance Unit Free State, Bloemfontein Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/I9 (X2 Posts)
Works Maintenance Unit Kwazulu Natal, Durban Ref No:
LOGDIV//01/40/25/J10
Works Maintenance Unit Limpopo, Polokwane Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/K11
(X3 Posts)
Works Maintenance Unit Mpumalanga, Nelspruit Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/L12 (X2 Posts)
Works Maintenance Unit Northern Cape, Diskobolos, Kimberley (Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/M13
Works Maintenance Unit Northwest, Potchefstroom Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/N14 (X3 Posts)
Works Maintenance Unit Western Cape, Wynberg, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/O15
Works Training School, Attridgeville, Pretoria West Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/P16
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No prior experience
required. Training in asset management, codification and procurement will be
an added advantage. Special requirements (skills needed): Language
proficiency in English (Written and verbal). Good telephone antiquate. Typing
skills. Good communication skills. Knowledge of all MS office packages.
Analytical and problem-solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound
organizational skills. High level of reliability and initiative. Numerical skills
Knowledge of policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge of DOD policies,
SOP’s and Directives.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing clerical and
administrative support in the management, control, and safekeeping of
logistical documentation to ensure compliance with security, confidentiality, and
audit requirements. The successful candidate will participate in the allocation
of document identification numbers, control revision levels, manage computer
file reference numbers, and load data onto the Logistics database from data-
capturing forms to maintain accurate and up-to-date records. Key duties
include administering the document release process, overseeing the secure
destruction of redundant classified documentation, and assisting with physical
audits of records and distribution registers to ensure accountability. The
incumbent will also support the control of access to and distribution of classified
hard copies and magnetic media, ensure the safe return of documents upon
project completion, and maintain proper filing and tracking systems for all
documentation. Additional responsibilities include monitoring and recording all
document movements, supporting management in the implementation of an
efficient document control system, and promoting operational effectiveness by
ensuring the integrity, availability, and proper management of all logistical
records. This role requires strong attention to detail, adherence to prescribed
policies and security protocols, and the ability to manage multiple clerical tasks
within the logistics environment.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/08 : REGISTRY CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SANAD/01/40/25/04
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Naval Armament Depot Simon’s Town, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No prior experience
required. Special requirements (skills needed): Language proficiency in
English (Written and verbal). Good telephone antiquate. Typing skills. Good
communication skills. Knowledge of all MS office packages. Analytical and
problem solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound organizational
skills. High level of reliability and initiative. Knowledge of registry duties,
practices and the ability to capture data. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures. Knowledge of DOD policies, SOP’s and Directives. Knowledge of
management of Information system transcripts.
10
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing comprehensive
registry and administrative support services to ensure the efficient
management and flow of information within the unit. The successful candidate
will handle registry counter services, administer the effective movement of
incoming and outgoing correspondence, and ensure the accurate distribution
and dispatch of files and mail. Key duties include maintaining and administering
archives, implementing a structured filing system in accordance with records
classification and archival policies, and processing documents for archiving or
disposal. The incumbent will provide general administrative support by
compiling letters, invitations, and routine correspondence, amending codes,
directives, and circulars, and operating office machines to support daily
functions. Additional responsibilities include monitoring compliance with
records management policies, ensuring the safekeeping and accessibility of
documents, assisting with audits and inspections, and performing
miscellaneous tasks as required to support the smooth functioning of the
registry and overall administrative operations within the unit. This role requires
attention to detail, organisational skills, and the ability to manage multiple
registry and administrative tasks efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street, Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 40/09 : SECRETARY (X17 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Defence Works Formation, Eco-Origin Office Park, Centurion Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/A17 (X2 Posts)
DOD Logistics Support Formation, TEK Base, Lyttleton Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/B18 (X2 Posts)
DOD Main Ordnance Sub Depot Durban, Mobeni East, Durban Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/C19
DOD Main Ordnance Sub Depot Wallmannsthal Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/D20
Logistics Division, Pretoria Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/E21 (X3 Posts)
Works Maintenance Unit Eastern Cape, Port Elizabeth Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/F22
Works Maintenance Unit KwaZulu Natal, Durban Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/G23
Works Maintenance Unit Limpopo, Polokwane Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/H24
Works Maintenance Unit Mpumalanga, Nelspruit Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/I25
Works Maintenance Unit Northern Cape, Diskobolos, Kimberley Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/J26
Works Maintenance Unit North West, Potchefstrrom Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/K27
Works Maintenance Unit Western Cape, Cape Town Ref No:
LOGDIV/01/40/25/L28
Works Training School, Attridgeville Ref No: LOGDIV/01/40/25/M29
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No prior experience
required. Special requirements (skills needed): The successful candidate must
be bilingual, Computer Literate, have verbal and written communication.
Proficient in all MS office packages. Management and negotiation abilities.
Time management and Interpersonal skills. Telephone etiquette. Problem
solving skills. Interpersonal proficiency. Financial and Personnel management.
Ability to communicate effectively in English (written and verbal). Analytical and
innovative thinking ability as well as problem solving skills. Excellent
interpersonal skills. Sound organizational skills. High level of reliability. Ability
to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide a secretarial support service to the
Director. Arrange appointments and meetings. Manage the Director diary.
Receive telephone calls and refer to the correct role player. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Write/type documents, memorandums, letters and
reports according to CSW. Take minutes during meetings. Handle classified
11
files and documents. Schedule meetings and events for the Director. Process
travel and subsistence advances and claims for the Director. Make travelling
arrangements. Book venues for meetings and events. Organize refreshments
and set up schedules for meetings and events. Prepare all relevant documents
for meetings. Receive and record correspondence. Operate office equipment.
Keep updated with policies and procedures. Coordinate logistical
arrangements for visitors. Scrutinize documents to determine
action/information/other documents required. Create and maintain an effective
filing system. Order stationery. Make Photostats copies, scan or e-mail
documentation as directed. Receive and transmit messages for the Director.
Liaison with Internal with Internal staff and external stakeholders on behalf of
the office.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 H. Tieties Tel No: (012) 402 2824/ Ms M. Mathonsi Tel No: (012) 402 2619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Logistics Division, 228 Visagie Street Peterson
Bothongo House 2, Pretoria 0001 or email to Logdivhrplan@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
Through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
12
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post. Persons
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly
persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An indication of such,
in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : N.B: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods of submitting a
job application, namely: Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applicants are
urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above. You may forward
your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96, Pretoria, 0001.
Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to Matimba House
Building ,192 Visagie Street, Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street Pretoria.
Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms M
Palare 012 406 7426 N.B: It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure
that their application reaches the Department on or before the set deadline.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application form which came
into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016
as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full, accurately,
legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by a
comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required from shortlisted
candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae
must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure to
provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete
information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a
foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an
interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the
advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise and an oral
interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore shortlisted applicants will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records and financial records checks.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It
is also important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/10 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DEE2025/001
(5 years fixed-term contract)
SALARY : R2 259 984 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Honours Degree/ Postgraduate in Public Management/
Administration/ Economics/ or relevant Energy Engineering qualifications at
NQF Level 8 recognised by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
plus pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). A valid driver’s license. A relevant
master’s degree will be an added advantage coupled with 10 years’ experience
13
in senior management level with proven track record of successfully leading
and managing at senior management level. Plus the following key
competencies: Knowledge of: In depth understanding and knowledge of the
Energy industry, Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Administration
Management Act, Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of the
regulatory regime affecting the Energy industry, Energy legislation,
Government policies and legislation, Understanding the intricacies of
managing change in government organisations and relationships with
stakeholders, administrative procedures, financial management, Project
management and Human Resource Management. Skills: Ability to execute
strategies, Excellent ethical Leadership, excellent analytical skills, problem-
solving skills, strong crisis management, conflict mediation and leadership
management skills, planning and organising, Project management,
Communication (Verbal, liaison & written), Policy Analysis and Development,
Computer, Presentation skills, Interpersonal skills, influencing skills and
negotiation skills. Thinking Demand: Problem solving, Innovative, Analytical,
Creativity, Critical thinking logical, a high level of awareness of economic
environment.
DUTIES : Ensure the management, coordination and monitoring of programmes as well
as projects focussed on access to energy resources. Oversee and regulate
South Africa’s Nuclear Energy Sector, ensuring peaceful use and compliance
with international obligations. Ensure effective oversight over the state-owned
companies (schedule 2 and 3) in line with the Companies Act. Formulate,
maintain and implement integrated energy policies to promote and encourage
investment in the energy industry and improve security of supply. Provide
strategic leadership, management and support services to the department.
Oversee the handling and coordination of international liaison in the energy
field. Managing the performance and development of employees reporting to
the Director-General.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ED Ndou Tel No: (012) 406 7430
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indian, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply. Candidates will undergo a practical, technical exercise and integrity
assessments.
POST 40/11 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DEE2025/002
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree in Public Administration/ Public Management/ Business
Administration/Human Resource Management/ Labour Relations/ Operations
Management, NQF level 7 recognised by South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) plus pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). A drivers’ licence. A
relevant postgraduate diploma will be an added advantage. 5 years of
experience that should be at senior managerial level within Corporate Services,
plus the following key competencies: Knowledge of: In depth understanding
and knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR),
Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA),
Employment Equity Act (EEA),Skills Development Act (SDA), and other
relevant human resource legislative frameworks. Service delivery imperatives
and Batho Pele Principles, with a focus on quality assurance and continuous
improvements. Communication stakeholder management, negotiation and
conflict resolution within the public sector environment. Record management,
knowledge management and information security. Government Immovable
Assets Management Act (GIAMA). Skills: Strategic leadership and
management skills to drive organisational performance and transformation.
Financial and Management and analytical skills with the ability to interpret and
apply financial prescripts. Policy formulation and implementation skills. Human
resources management and labour relations skills, with the ability to manage
change and transformation. Project management skills, with proven delivery
results with self-timeframes. Excellent communication skills (Verbal, written
and presentation) for effective engagement with stakeholders at all levels.
Negotiation, facilitation and conflict management skills. Information and
knowledge management skills. Client orientation and customer focus,
underpinned by Batho Pele Principles. Ethical conduct and integrity with the
14
ability to promote corporate governance and accountability. Thinking Demand:
Logical, Creative/ Innovative thinker, Objective, Accurate and Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Provide professional legal support and advisory service to the ministry and
department. Ensure the provision of Facilities and Record Management
Services; Security Operations and Vetting services; Human Resources
Development; Organisational Development & Change Management;
Employment Relations & Wellness; Human Resources Administration and
Practices; Human Resource Planning, Policy and Systems. Manage the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TI Mahuma Tel No: (012) 406 7433
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies2@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply. Candidates will undergo a practical exercise and integrity assessments
POST 40/12 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: DEE2025/003
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A/an appropriate degree in Accounting/ Financial Management or Auditing at
NQF Level 7 recognised by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA),
plus the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). 5 years’ experience as a senior
managerial level in financial management. A drivers’ licence. Plus the following
key competencies: Knowledge of: In depth understanding and knowledge of
the Public Finance and accounting principles, Treasury Regulations, Supply
Chain Management policies. Governance Framework and Logis. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and ICT systems in finance. Knowledge of
the International Financial Reports Standards (IFRS) and Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP). Skills: Strategic financial planning, Analytical
and problem-solving ability, Report writing skills, Decision-making skills, people
management, Accountability, Transparency, Innovative, Leadership Skills,
Project management, Change Management, Benchmarking, Presentation
Skills. Thinking Demand: Logical, Creative/Innovative thinker, Objective,
Accurate, Diplomatic and able to solve problems.
DUTIES : Manage Financial Accounting and Reporting services. Manage budgetary
process to ensure compliance with the PFMA. Give strategic direction and
guidance with regard to Supply Chain Management. Manage the Financial
Management Services Component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TI Mahuma Tel No: (012) 406 7433
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies3@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply. Candidates will undergo a practical, technical exercise and integrity
assessments.
15
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of a SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicants own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the Department,
following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Please
note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
16
a performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/13 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/25/10/O7HO
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification at (NQF7) as recognized by SAQA in Labour
Relations/Human Resources Management/ Law. Valid driver’s license. Five (5)
years’ experience at Senior Managerial level in Labour Relations Services.
Knowledge: The South African Labour Market, Public Finance Management
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Corporate Governance, Batho Pele Principles, Minimum
Information Security Standards, All Labour Relations, Public Service Code of
Conduct. Skills: Financial Management, Leadership, Verbal and written
Communication, Computer Literacy, Project Management, Strategic
management, Interpersonal relations, Conflict management, Decision making.
DUTIES : Develop Strategies to promote equity in the Labour Market. Regulate the
protection of vulnerable workers for various industries in the country. Advice
the Director-General and Executive Authority on an ongoing basis regarding
Labour Relations matters and trends within the country. Promote sound Labour
Relations in various Industries within the country. Manage the process of
promoting equity in Labour Market. Manage the resources within the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. For online applications email:
Jobs-HQ25@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/14 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & HYGIENE REF NO:
HR 4/4/4/10/01 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF
7) in Analytical Chemistry/ Occupational Health/ Hygiene/ Chemical
engineering. Four years’ functional experience in Health and Hygiene
inspection/ Services. Valid driver’s Licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS
Standards, OHS Management System, OHS act, OHS Regulation, OHSAS,
Inspectors appointment certificate, Appointment certificate ex-officio. Skills:
Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Problem solving, Interviewing, listening and observation, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS.
Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as per
inspection programme. Conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Safety within identified sectors. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tshabalala Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: P O Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP22@labour.gov.za For attention: sub-directorate: Human Resources
Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng.
POST 40/15 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR
4/4/4/10/02
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
17
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF
7) in Mechanical Engineering. Four years’ functional experience in Health and
safety inspections focusing on Mechanical engineering. Valid driver’s Licence.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles,
Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS
Standards, OHS Management System, COIDA. Skills: Facilitation, Planning
and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving,
Interviewing, listening and observation, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical,
Research, Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Mechanical Engineering policies and
ensure implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Employment and
Labour in terms of OHS legislation. Conduct complex inspections for
Mechanical Engineering regularly as per OHS programme. Conduct technical
research on the latest trends on Mechanical Engineering. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tshabalala Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: P O Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP21@labour.gov.za For attention: sub-directorate: Human Resources
Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng
18
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025, 16:00
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/.Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS post will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/16 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LAW REFORM AND POLICY COORDINATION REF NO:
RSCM10 /2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law or relevant qualification on (NQF7)
within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience at a senior managerial level within the relevant field. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
19
the National School of Government (NSG). Experience in the law reform and
policy coordination. Certificate in legislative drafting and experience in the
South African legislative process for the promulgation of legislation. Knowledge
of Legal Administration, Strategic coordination/ planning, Business planning,
Report/professional writing, Policy development , Business process
management, Organisation performance management, Risk management,
Audit procedures, Research methodologies and presentation, Project
management, Outlook, Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Knowledge on how to use
legal data bases (Juta, Sabinet, LexisNexis) for research purposes, Policies,
legislation and procedures, Public Service and Departmental procedures and
prescripts, Planning and performance management legislation, Departmental
legislation, Budget planning and control, procurement and financial prescripts,
Legislative drafting course. Skills & Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Managerial skills, Advanced skills in policy formulation,
Negotiation skills, Adequate skills in computer use, Advanced skills in
budgeting, managing budget, Advanced skills in respect of formal presentation
and public speaking; management and project management, Good
interpersonal relations and diplomatic skills, Relationship Management,
Stakeholder engagement, Public Relations, Research, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management: Service Delivery Innovation (SDI), Problem Solving and
Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. Personal attributes Managerial capability, Ability to work
individually and in a team, Adherence to deadlines, Good interpersonal
relations, Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict, Sense of
responsibility and loyalty, Objectiveness, Integrity, Service orientated, Self-
supervision, Highly developed sense of honesty, Protect the confidentiality of
documents.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the management of all law reform requests. Oversee the
provisioning of general legal support in respect of legislation administered by
the Department Oversee and manage the drafting, vetting of, commenting on
and processing of Bills. Ensure the provision of general legal support and
directives issued in terms of legislation administered by the Department Ensure
legislation and policy coordination within the Department
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha, Tel: (012) 399 9602
APPLICATIONS : RSCM10-2025@dffe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/17 : CONTROL BIODIVERSITY OFFICER GRADE A: CITES POLICY
DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: BC29/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) years Degree (NQF8) or equivalent qualification in Environmental
Management/ Natural Sciences or equivalent qualification within the related
field plus six (6) years post qualification experience in the relevant field.
Knowledge of the National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004
(Act No. 10 of 2004) (NEMBA), its associated subordinate legislation, and other
relevant Acts that deal with biodiversity matters. Knowledge of the National
Environmental Management Act, 1998 (Act No. 107 of 1998) (NEMA).
Knowledge of protection and sustainable use of natural resources, in particular
applicable MEAs (CITES and CBD). Experience and knowledge of policy
development and implementation. Knowledge of legal and administrative
processes pertaining to legislation. Skills: Planning skills; Good communication
skills; Computer literacy; Creativity; Communication skills; Report writing skills
and Organisational skills. Personal attributes: Innovative and proactive. Ability
to work long hours voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Proven
leadership skills. Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Ability to lead multidisciplinary team. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under extreme pressure. Conflict
management and resolution. Ability to organise and plan under pressure.
Ability to collect and interpret information and reports. Interpersonal relations;
Initiative; Responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Develop, review and amend regulations, policies, strategies, plans and norms
and standards relating to CITES. Facilitate stakeholder participation during the
legislative development process. Develop and monitor national CITES
20
implementation plans and frameworks. Provide technical guidance to
provincial authorities and enforcement agencies. Coordinate the allocation of
CITES quotas. Compile annual and bi-annual reports. Coordinate and liaise
with other Parties on CITES implementation matters. Ensure that CITES
resolutions and decisions are domesticated into national practice. Prepare for
international meetings, including Standing Committee meetings and
Conference of the Parties. Evaluate CITES permit applications and issuance
of permits.
ENQUIRY : Ms MO Kumalo at 060 834 3088
APPLICATIONS : BC29-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 40/18 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUXILARY AND TELECOMMUNICATION
MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: CMS15/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Public Administration (NQF 6) or relevant qualification. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in Auxiliary and Telecommunication Services.
Knowledge of administrative procedures. Financial and project management.
Knowledge of HR practices. Ability to gather and analyse information. Contract
management. Computer literate. Coordination and writing reports. Planning
and organizing skills. Good communication skills (written and verbal). Good
interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide a Telecommunication Services. Facilitate movement and installation of
telephone lines. Ensure maintenance and replacement of faulty or worn-out
telephone instruments. Conduct awareness campaigns. Provide support on
contract management. Provide support on the management of Service Level
Agreements. Provide support on the management of projects. Conducting
inspections. Compile submissions for appointment/renewal of service
contracts. Administer Telkom Contracts. Facilitate payment of DATA, Voice
lines. Coordinate upgrading of telephone equipment’s at regional offices.
Facilitate Auxiliary Services. Ensure that policies and control measures
(rooster) for auxiliary services are in place and are adhered to. Ensure
availability of necessary equipment and staff for efficient and effective cleaning
services. Ensure training of auxiliary staff in relevant skills.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mampshika Tel No: (012) 399 8516
APPLICATIONS : CMS15-2025@dffe.gov.co.za
POST 40/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROGRAMME MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: EP19/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) in Social and/or Economic Sciences,
Development Studies, Monitoring and Evaluation, Statistics and Research. A
minimum of three (3) years’ proven experience in project management,
Monitoring and Evaluation. Knowledge and experience in database
management and analysis software packages, such as MS Access, Excel,
STATA and ATLAS TI. Ability to customise and generate reports to meet users’
needs. Extensive experience in conducting social research (minimum two
years) from both public and or private. Knowledge of GWM&E. Knowledge of
Programme Performance Management Framework. Report-writing skills.
Demonstrated knowledge of and experience in applying Monitoring and
Evaluation principles in social research. Good analytical capability. Good
communication and presentation skills (ability to communicate in one of the
indigenous languages will be an added advantage). Ability to develop
newsletters. Knowledge and experience in contract management. Good
stakeholder liaison, co-ordination and problem-solving skills. Good computer
skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure and long
hours, as well as willingness to travel long distances for an extended period(s).
A valid driver’s license is a must.
DUTIES : Participate in conducting of monitoring and evaluation studies within the
branch. Generate, customise and communicate reports to the relevant
stakeholders. Participate in the process of coordinating the implementation of
recommendations from various monitoring and evaluation reports.
Responsible for the development of the M&E newsletter. Contribute in the
process of reviewing monitoring and evaluation framework and the M&E plans.
21
Support the regions with data collection, verification and provision of feedback
on a regular basis. Responsible for capturing, cleaning and analysing of the
data collected. Preparation of branch monthly/quarterly performance reports.
Engagement with stakeholders at different levels. Support the branch as and
when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Moela Tel No: (012) 399 9730
APPLICATIONS : EP19-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 40/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND BUSINESS
PERFORMANCE REF NO: CMS25/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Commerce/ Humanities/ Social
Science/Business/Public Administration or relevant qualification. Minimum of 3
years’ experience in Organizational Planning/Performance or relevant field.
Experience in providing support in organizational planning, performance
monitoring, reporting and evaluation. Knowledge of Public Service and
Departmental procedures and prescripts. Knowledge of Government planning
framework. Knowledge of planning, monitoring and reporting procedures.
Knowledge and understanding of project and financial management Sound
planning and organizing skills, good communication skills, writing skills,
interpersonal relations skills, analytical thinking, computer skills, conflict
resolution skills, facilitation and leadership skills. Ability to gather and analyse
information. Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to facilitate workshops.
Ability to work under extreme pressure. Ability to work individually and in team.
Ability to work long hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and review of the Department’s 5-year strategic
plan, annual performance plan and annual operational plan aligned to
Government’s planning frameworks, the environment sector priorities,
government’s Medium-Term Development Plan and government’s planning
frameworks. Coordinate the development of departmental performance
reports. Coordinate the development and review of the Department’s service
delivery improvement programme. Coordinate monitoring, reporting and
evaluation within the Department. Coordinate the internal and external audit
process. Develop and implement the organizational performance management
policy framework and guidelines for the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Tsekiso Tel No: (012) 399 9661
APPLICATIONS : CMS25-2025@dffe.gov.za
22
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/21 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: NDOH 82/2025
Directorate: Strategic Planning
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package),
salary package will be structured according to Middle Management Service
guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Strategic
Management/Business Administration/ Business Management/ Public
Management or Public Administration as recognized by SAQA. At least three
(3) years’ functional experience in a strategy and planning environment, at an
Assistant Director or equivalent level. Experience in the development,
monitoring, and reporting of indicators at the project/sub-program or program
level. Knowledge and understanding of the National Health Act, National
Health System and Health Information System. Knowledge and understanding
of the regulatory requirements that impact planning in the health sector.
Knowledge and understanding of government planning practices,
methodologies and budgeting processes. Good communication (verbal and
23
written), leadership, organising and co-ordination, interpersonal risk
management, analytical, project management, problem solving and computer
skills (MS Office package). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage, facilitate and coordinate the development of National Department of
Health Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans. Provide strategic
overview for health sector planning for the development of Strategic Plans and
Annual Performance Plans. Provide technical support to Provincial
Departments of Health to develop Strategic Plans, Annual Performance Plans
and District Health Plans. Develop appropriate tools/frameworks to support the
development of performance plans. Facilitate integrated planning for the health
sector. Support the development of Service Delivery Improvement Plan (SDIP)
for the National Department of Health. Collaborate with internal stakeholders
to develop the SDIP. Contribute to the development of integrated budgeting,
planning, monitoring and evaluation. Support the development of the health
sector Estimate for National Expenditure (ENE) through identification of
appropriate performance indicators in line with high impact outputs aligned to
government and sector priorities. Support the achievement of deliverables of
the strategic planning directorate. Develop strategies/plans to promote the
achievement of directorate’s deliverables.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Sebanyoni Tel No: (012) 395 8408
POST 40/22 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL SUPPORT REF NO: NDOH 83/2025
Directorate: Compensation Commissioner for Occupational Diseases
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package), salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Financial Management as
recognized by SAQA. At least three (3) years’ experience as an Assistant
Director or equivalent level in Financial Management/Fund Management or
Claims Management. Knowledge of risk management and understanding the
application of Government and Departmental policies. Sound understanding of
financial policies as guided by Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulation. Good communication (verbal and written),
strategic capability and leadership, financial management, project
management, people management, monitoring, evaluation and computer skills
(MS Office package). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and policy for provinces.
Develop and align policies to the standard operating procedure for provinces
and the department. Strengthen the implementation of supply chain and
processes in the provinces related to the occupational health services. Develop
a checklist on all procurements to ensure accountability by provinces. Support
the province on all occupational Health Services and ensure proper
maintenance of equipment is in line with supply chain processes. Monitor the
payment for provincial hospitals and services providers that are performing
Medical Bureau for Occupational Diseases. Implement controls that ensure
proper management of claims management in the provinces. Risk
management. File management. Manage and monitor the internal audit
functions for the Medical Bureau for Occupational Diseases (MBOD)/
Compensation Commissioner for Occupational Health (CCOD). Support
internal auditors in the execution of the audit plan by arranging meetings to
discuss the plan and ensuring that it is approved and signed by the relevant
signatories. Management of state resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Thembisa Mama Tel No: (012) 395 5650
24
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(UMFOLOZI TVET COLLEGE)
APPLICATIONS : All application should be emailed to Applications.central@umfolozi.edu.za. The
name of the post and reference number must be indicated in the email subject
line. Applications should be send as one PDF file, without any qualifications.
No Faxed applications will be accepted. Applications that do not comply with
the above specifications will be disqualified. Re- Advertisement (Candidates
who previously applied need to re-apply).
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 13:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form (in line with DPSA circular
19 of 2022), obtainable from any Public Service department or on the internet
at www.dpsa.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents must not be included in the application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications on the day of the interview. Communication will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. A separate application must be submitted for each post
that you are applying for. Late application (received after closing date and time)
and incomplete applications will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other relevant
documents to College Human Resources Management Administration Unit on
or before the day of the interview. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The employer is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 40/23 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
UMF73/10/2025
(PERSAL Appointment)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : UMfolozi TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF7) in Psychology or BA in Social Work
(Major in Psychology) or equivalent qualification. 3–5 years’ relevant
experience in an educational institution. A valid driver’s license. Computer
Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint). Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa/ either Registered Counsellor (Career
Counselling or School Counselling) or psychometric (Independent Practice).
Knowledge of PSET and CET Act; Teaching and Learning, Skills Development
Act, National Student Financial Aid Scheme and related legislation, Public
Service Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act. Knowledge
of the Ethical regulatory and legislative framework; The following skills are
required: Administrative; planning and organizing; financial management;
report writing; communication and interpersonal; problem solving; client
oriented; analytical; project management; team leadership; and people
management. Sound financial planning and management competencies.
Excellent report writing skills and processing skills. Advantageous. Previous
experience of at least 2 years in the TVET Sector.
DUTIES : Oversee administration of the students support services unit; Manage students
counselling across the college; Provide student with career guidance,
counselling and academic support; Oversee and maintain the sport, recreation,
25
arts and culture activities for student; Facilitate student governance and
student leadership development; Manage mainstreaming of gender and
disability within students; Management of all Human, Financial and other
resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZH Mngoma Tel No: (035) 902 9501
26
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Shortlisted candidates
are required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if
specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a
prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate
to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, ONLY.
OTHER POST
POST 40/24 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS (X4 POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Provincial Manager’s Office Ref No: HRMC 47/25/1a (X1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Provincial Manager’s Office Ref No: HRMC 47/25/1b (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Provincial Manager’s Office Ref No: HRMC 47/25/1c (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Provincial Manager’s Office Ref No: HRMC 47/25/1d (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations / Labour Law at NQF level
6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience as Labour Relations Officer or
Practitioner is required. Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, 66, 1995. Knowledge of
Collective Agreements. Knowledge of relevant Departmental Legislation and
prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge
of DPSA guidelines. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and Leadership.
Client Orientation and customer focus. Time Management. Good verbal and
written communication, as well as report writing and presentation skills.
Problem-solving. Programme and project management. Ability to meet
deadlines. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, to support the
Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation. Decision making. Accountability. Interviewing skills.
Planning and organizing. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Facilitate the implementation of misconduct and
disciplinary processes in the province. Represent the Province at all
disciplinary hearings. Provide expert advice in the province on disciplinary and
misconduct matters. Establish partnerships and constantly liaise with provincial
external stakeholders on labour related matters on recognized Labour unions.
Represent the Department in disputes and facilitate the acquisition of evidence
and witness for arbitration matters. Facilitate labour related programmes,
collective bargaining, grievance resolution and dispute management process
in the province. Respond to complaints, grievances and appeals adhering to
27
all regulatory, accreditation and internal processing timelines and guidelines.
Co-ordinate and participate in the Provincial Consultative Forum (PCF).
Conduct research on case law, adjudication trends and developments in labour
law and labour relations. Prepare and submit reports on grievances and
disputes to Head Office on a weekly basis. Represent the Department in
mediation, conciliation and arbitration matters. Build and maintain relationships
with various stakeholders. Benchmark with various institutions for best
practice. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance
management practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Mr P Mlangeni Tel No: (011) 242 9039
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409 / (021) 488 1412
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-
Gauteng: Physical Address: 3rd Floor, Mineralia Building, Cnr De Beer and De
Korte Street, Braamfontein, 2017
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg 3209
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000.
28
ANNEXURE H
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. Due
to the large number of applications, we envisage to receive, applications will
not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within three (3) weeks
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the post will be required to submit
the documents on or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate
will have to undergo security vetting. His / her character should be beyond
reproach. The appointment is subject to security clearance, verification of
qualifications and competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). The
Department reserves the right to fill or not fill the any advertised posts.
Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered during /
after the interview took place, the application will not be considered and in the
unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such appointment will be
terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security vetting process. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with. The successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of 12 months and will be required to
sign a performance agreement. The suitable candidate will be selected with
the intention of promoting presentively and achieving affirmative action targets
as contemplated in the Department’s Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POST
POST 40/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTNG REF NO: Q9/2025/75
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : National Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Accounting at NQF level 7. Three
years’ relevant supervisory experience. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge
Requirements: Sound knowledge in preparation of Financial Statements.
Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and PERSAL systems. Knowledge of Regulatory
Framework of the Public Service, e.g. PFMA, Public Service Regulations,
National Treasury Regulations and other relevant prescripts. Knowledge of
Modified Cash Standard (MCS) and Accounting Manual for Departments. Skills
and Competencies: Job Knowledge, Communication, Interpersonal relations,
Flexibility, Teamwork, Analytical thinking, Computer skills, Computer literacy
29
(MS Word PowerPoint and Excel. Planning and organization, Language, Good
verbal and written Communication skills. Accuracy, ability to work under
pressure and prepared to work irregular hours. Analysis of National Treasury
Guidelines and Framework.
DUTIES : Financial Statements Preparation and Reporting: Compile monthly, quarterly
and annual financial statements. Coordinate and collect all required data for
complete and accurate reporting. Verify and evaluate inputs received from
management for inclusion in financial statements. Prepare supporting audit
files aligned with National treasury. Financial Governance and Compliance:
Manage and update registers for: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure, irregular
expenditure, unauthorized expenditure. Serve as secretariat for: Financial
Misconduct Committee, Loss Control Committee. Liaise with internal and
external auditors to address audit findings and ensure compliance with PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and other applicable legislations. Internal Controls and
Risk Management: Establish, implement and monitor internal control systems.
Develop and maintain financial reporting systems to ensure accuracy and
integrity. Support risk mitigation through proactive identification and resolution
of financial irregularities. Performance Monitoring and Evaluation: Collect and
consolidate financial and non-financial information for BEE audit compliance.
Provide financial input into departmental performance reviews and strategic
planning processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Ndaba Tel No: (012) 399 0115
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate, National Office Private Bag
X941, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to Benstra Building, 473 Stanza Bopape
& Church Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, or email recruitment23@ipid.gov.za
(Please indicate the post name and reference number on the subject line) when
applying through e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. DS Baloyi Tel No: (012) 399 0202
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR (2025 TO 2027)
(24 Months)
APPLICATIONS : National Office: direct your application to Independent police investigative
directorate, Benstra building, 473 Stanza Bopape & Steve Biko Street, arcadia
Pretoria 0001, or Recruitment24@ipid.gov.za. Please indicate the post name
& reference number on the subject line when applying through email
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Mereko Tel No (012) 399 0189
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : The Independent Police Investigative Directorate is offering opportunities to
unemployed South Africans University Graduates who have not been exposed
to work experience related to their qualifications, Application quoting the
reference number must be made to the province of residence and be submitted
through the addresses depicted under each post. Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on applications
but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications quoting the
correct reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect application
form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment form
must be fully completed, signed and initialed by the applicant. Failure to sign
this form may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection
process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well as a fully completed
and initialed new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are compulsory and section
E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached). However, the question
related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part-F must be
answered. affidavit confirming that you have not participated in a similar
Programme before. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
(only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be
considered. Due to the large number of applications we envisage to receive,
applications will not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within
three (3) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the post will be
required to submit the documents on or before the date of the interview. The
30
successful candidate will have to undergo security vetting. His / her character
should be beyond reproach. The appointment is subject to security clearance,
verification of qualifications and competency assessment (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any
other allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered
during / after the interview took place, the application will not be considered
and in the unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such appointment
will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to
positive results of the security vetting process. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
OTHER POST
POST 40/26 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: (2025 TO 2027) REF NO:
Q9/2025/77 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria, Office of the Chief Financial Officer
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification: NQF level 7: Financial Management or Accounting Science.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thipe Tel No: (012) 399 0185
31
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/27 : MANAGER: HUMAN RESOURCE AND PLANNING REF NO: 3/10/25 OLSO
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; An appropriate National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree as
recognized by SAQA in Human Resources Management or equivalent; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in Human Resources management resources
at junior management level; Knowledge and understanding of HR related
prescripts (e.g. Employment Equity, Labour relations and Public Service,
Knowledge and understanding of the HR systems, best practises, and
processes. Knowledge of POPIA, PAJA AND PAIA, Knowledge of BCEA (Basic
Conditions of Employment Act), Knowledge of Financial Management and
regulatory framework/guidelines, prescripts, the Public Service Act, the Public
Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial
Instructions, the Public Finance. Knowledge of Management Act, Government
initiatives and decisions. Skills and Competencies: People Management;
Policy Development; Project Management; Budgeting and financial
management; Communication; Client orientation and Custer focus;
Presentation and Facilitation; Diversity management and Impact and influence;
Interpersonal relations and conflict resolution; Planning and organizing;
Decision making; Team Management; Change Management.
32
DUTIES : Manage, and coordinate recruitment and selection process; Manage
performance management process; Manage and coordinate the administration
of employee benefits; Manage the human resource planning of Legal services
Ombud; Develop Human Resources policies and processes; Manage and
facilitate employee records analyse the Human Resources trends and gaps;
Manage the humans’ operations and facilitate human Resource risk register;
Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nokulunga Dumakude at 069 019 9428
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Legal Services Ombud, P O Box 1202,
Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical address: 2007 Spooral Park, SA Law Reform
Offices, Lenchen South Avenue. Centurion OR email application to:
OLSOenquiries@justice.gov.za
POST 40/28 : MANAGER: GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS PROCESSES REF NO:
2/10/25 OLSO
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; National Diploma in Operations Management/Management
Services (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in organizational design and business processes at junior
management level; Knowledge of HR related legislation; Understanding of
business processes; Knowledge of job design and evaluation systems;
Knowledge of Organisational design principles and procedures; Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations; Knowledge of POPIA, PAJA and PAIA;
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Skills and Competencies:
Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial
management; Communication and information management; Diversity
management and Impact and influence; Interpersonal relations and conflict
resolution; Planning and organizing; Decision making; Project management;
Team Management; Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage, develop and review of organizational structures and systems and
ensure alignment to strategic objectives; Manage operations and submit
quarterly and annual reports is this regard; Manage the alignment and
maintenance of functional post establishment; Manage and facilitate the
development and enhancement of business processes; Manage and develop
norms and standard for organisational operations; Manage and facilitate the
development and review of job description; Manage and facilitate the
conducting of job analysis and evaluation process; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MV Shivuri Tel No: (010) 023 5508
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Legal Services Ombud, P O Box 1202,
Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical address: 2007 Spooral Park, SA Law Reform
Offices, Lenchen South Avenue. Centurion OR email application to
OLSOenquiries@justice.gov.za
POST 40/29 : MANAGER: COMPLAINTS AND INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: 2/01/25 OLSO
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Centurion (X3 Posts)
Cape Town (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree/ four-year Law Degree as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of
3 years’ experience post qualification in the Legal Services field; Admission to
Legal Practice Council and in good standing; Knowledge of the Legal Practice
Act; Practical knowledge and understanding of assessment as well as
investigative approaches and methodologies; Practical knowledge and
understanding of drafting legal instruments, litigation management processes
and interpreting statutes. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy;
Strategic capability and leadership; Case-flow management; Financial skills;
Information and knowledge management; Project management; Service
delivery innovation; Legislative drafting; Presentation and facilitation; Ability to
analyse and develop policies; Communication skills (written and verbal)
33
DUTIES : Provide complaints assessment services, determine requirements and present
the outcome to the relevant Committee. Investigate complaints, provide report
and advice on remedial actions to the Committee and monitor the
investigations thereof. Provide legal advisory services on contracts and service
level agreements correspondence. Draft and review legal opinions, Manage
litigation matters on behalf of OLSO; Conduct legal research and knowledge
management; conduct of disciplinary committees and appeal tribunals of the
LPC; Develop and review policy guidelines and procedures for assessment
operations and investigation/monitoring operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MV Shivuri Tel No: (010) 023 5508
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Legal Services Ombud, P O Box 1202,
Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical address: 2007 Spooral Park, SA Law Reform
Offices, Lenchen South Avenue. Centurion OR email application to
OLSOenquiries@justice.gov.za
POST 40/30 : EXECUTIVE OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR: IN THE OFFICE OF THE OMBUD
REF NO: 2/9/25 OLSO
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Administration or equivalent. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in executive support.; Knowledge of the
relevant Public Service legislation and Legal Practice Act; Knowledge and
understanding of financial, provisioning and procurement prescripts and
procedures; Knowledge and understanding of OLSO operational policies and
procedures, Stakeholder management. Skills and Competencies:
Communication (verbal and written); Computer literacy; Problem-solving;
Planning and organizing; Project management; Financial management skills;
Report writing skills; Administrative skills Good interpersonal relations;
Attention to details; Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide Executive Secretarial/receptionist support; Provide administrative
support services; Co-ordinate events and meetings on behalf of the Office of
the Ombud. Attend to enquiries and assist in drafting correspondence. Compile
reports and analyze statistics for submission to the office of the Ombud.
Manage finance and procurement of goods and services of the Office of the
Ombud. Working with different Stakeholders for the Ombud.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MV Shivuri Tel No: (010) 023 5508
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Legal Services Ombud, P O Box 1202,
Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical address: 2007 Spooral Park, SA Law Reform
Offices, Lenchen South Avenue. Centurion OR email application to
OLSOenquiries@justice.gov.za
POST 40/31 : COURT MANAGER (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Aliwal North Ref No: 111/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Idutywa Ref No: 112/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: New Brighton Ref No: 113/25EC; (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Sterkspruit Ref No: 114/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Clanwilliam Ref No:66/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Khayelitsha Ref No: 67/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Knysna Ref No: 68/2025/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration/ Management/ Law /Legal
studies or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of three
years’ experience in court management environment with a minimum of two
years (2) as a supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office
and district administration; Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA); Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Account;
Experience in the court environment will be an added advantage; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Communication and information management;
34
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Planning and
organising; Developing others; Diversity management; Problem solving;
Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human
resource, risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business
planning processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile and analyse court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer
service improvement strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr A Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
POST 40/32 : SOCIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR (GR 1- 2) REF NO: 25/35/KZN
SALARY : R477 564 – R893 949 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Work or equivalent qualification which allows for
professional registration with the SACSSP; Professional registration with the
SACSSP; A minimum of seven (7) years appropriate experience in Social Work
after registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP; Knowledge and
experience in Mediation; Court experience in leading Evidence; Knowledge
and application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain Divorce Matters
Act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence Act; Children’s Act (inclusive
Hague Convention on International Child Abduction). Skills and Competencies:
Supervisory skills; Facilitation skills; Communication (written and verbal) skills;
Computer literacy (MS Office); Mediation, interviewing, conflict resolution,
evaluation and report writing skills; Diversity and conflict management;
Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee child focus forensic assessment services;
Supervise risk related to children’s care environment and or contacts;
Supervise the provision of Expert witness evidence in Court of Law; Oversee
Implementation and monitoring operational performance of forensic social
work Services; Conduct Appropriate Disputes Resolutions, Compile and
register Parental Responsibilities and Rights (PRR) and Parenting Plans;
Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N.F. Nkosi Tel No: (031) 3723000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your application to:
Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton
Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/33 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTS AND SYSTEMS CONTROL REF NO:
25/106/FMS
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management, Financial Accounting,
Internal Audit, Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA; A minimum
of 3 years’ experience in a Financial Management of which 2 years should be
at a supervisory level; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, and
budget management; Knowledge of National Treasury Regulations and
Frameworks; Knowledge financial system (BAS and Safety Net) and policy
development. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied
35
technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity
management; Presentation and facilitation skills; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Decision making;
Project management; Computer literacy (MS word, Power Point, Outlook,
Excel).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor Accounts and compile Trial Balance Work
Plans; Monitor Batch Control Process; Facilitate and administer the process of
entities; Facilitate and maintain BAS profiles and provide advice; Provide
accounting information and responses to risk, audit and assurance providers;
Authorize all projections (sundry payments) to be cleared on a quarterly basis;
Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/34 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Offices: Cape Town Ref No: 69/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mitchells Plain Ref No: 70/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Ntuzuma Ref No: 25/36/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year National Diploma / Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration
/ Public Management or equivalent, 3 years’ administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA);
Knowledge of Financial Management (Vote and Trust); Departmental Financial
Instructions (DFI); BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and Competencies:
People Management; Computer literacy (Microsoft Packages); Good
Communication skills (written and verbal); Organising and Problem-solving
skills; Sound Leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human resource of the office; Co-
ordinate and manage risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and
business planning process; Manage the Criminal and Civil Court Administration
Section and other sections related to Family Court and Supply Chain; Manage
Thirty Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office; Coordinate, manage and
administer support services to Case Flow Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Kwazulu-Natal: Ms VT Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 3723000
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/35 : PHOTOGRAPHER: INTERNAL COMMUNICATION REF NO: 25/115/IDS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 in qualification Photography as recognized by SAQA; A
minimum of 2 years experience in Photography; Knowledge of lighting and
camera systems; Knowledge and understanding of audio-visual systems and
technologies, ability to troubleshoot and resolve technical issues efficiently,
proficiency in photo and video editing software; Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Service statutory frameworks, Financial Management and
regulatory framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies: Concern for
others; Creative thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making;
36
Diversity citizenship; Communication (verbal and written) skills; Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and facilitate photographic projects;
Manage photographic technical operations and resource management;
Employ photo editing software to edit and enhance images for desired effects;
Establish and organize Departmental centralized photo library for internal use.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Chauke Tel No: (012) 315 1329
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/36 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Goodwood Ref No: 74/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Verulam Ref No: 25/37/KZN (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Whittlesea Ref No: 116/25EC (Re-advertisement) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Graaff-Reinet, Ref No: 117/25E (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: East London Ref No: 118/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mdantsane Ref No: 119/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Flagstaff Ref No: 120/25EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF 5 or any other
relevant tertiary qualification in the field of languages at NQF 5 and minimum
of three years’ practical experience in court interpreting or Grade 12 with ten
years’ practical experience in court interpreting; Proficiency in English and two
or more indigenous languages. Language proficiency: Verulam: IsiXhosa and
IsiZulu; Eastern Cape: Preference will be given to languages used in area and
sign language; A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. NB:
Applicants will be subjected to a language test – speak, read and written. Skills
and Competencies: Planning and organizing; Time management skills;
Interpersonal skills; Problem solving and analytical thinking; Listening skills
Communications skills; Computer literacy; Confidentiality; Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render interpreting services; Translate legal
document and exhibits; Assist with the reconstruction of Court Records;
Perform specific line and administrative support functions; Provide effective
people management; Develop Terminology.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms V.T. Mlandeliso Tel No: (031) 3723000
Eastern Cape: Mr. S Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7003
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu F
Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or to https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 40/37 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 2025/87/GP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with commercial subjects; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
financial administration. Knowledge of Accounting and financial administration,
Financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, JYP), Knowledge of Financial
management and regulatory framework/guidelines, prescripts, the Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental
37
Financial Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Creative thinking; Citizen Service
Orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship; Organisational and
effectiveness skills; Communication skills (verbal & written); Planning and
organizing skills; Problem analysis; Team membership; Technical proficiency,
Accurate and attention to details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render asset management clerical
services. Supervise and render demand and acquisition clerical services;
Supervise and undertake logistical support services; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/38 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (THIRD PARTY FUNDS) REF NO: 91/25EC
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 in Financial Accounting/ Financial Management/ Economics/
Public Finance/ Internal Audit/ B Com in Finance as recognised by SAQA; A
minimum of three years’ experience in Financial Management environment.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Budget
Management; Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Audit Act. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Good communication (verbal and written)
skills; Planning and organizing skills; Ability to work under pressure and self-
motivated; Accurate and attention to details; Budget Management and costing,
presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor the cash flow management for the province;
Provide financial administration in the province; Monitor the monthly Third-
Party Funds (TPF) Bank Reconciliation in the province; Implement and monitor
compliance; Facilitate audit process within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7135
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 40/39 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Elliotdale Ref No: 115/25EC (X1 Post) (Will also be
responsible to work at other offices in the district as required)
Magistrate Office, Ceres Ref No: 73/2025/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; Relevant Administrative
experience in Family Law Matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act of
99 of 1989). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Planning and organizing; Good
interpersonal relations; Time management; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve Maintenance Summons, Warrants and
Garnishee Orders for the District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of Persons; Give Testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr. S Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7003
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London.
38
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
POST 40/40 : COURT INTERPRETER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: George Ref No: 64/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Worcester Ref No: 65/2025/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in one
or more indigenous languages and English; The following will serve as an
added advantage: Three months practical experience and drivers license.
Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills; Listening skills;
Interpersonal skills; Time management; Computer literacy; Analytical thinking;
Problem solving; Planning and organizing; Confidentiality; Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court, quasi-judicial
proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal documents and
exhibit; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case records on request
of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town Or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention:
Ms P Paraffin.
NOTE : Separate applications must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 40/41 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Burgersdorp Ref No 121/25E (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: George Ref No: 72/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Esikhaleni Ref No: 25/39/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy; Planning and organising; Interpersonal skills; Language skills;
Flexibility; Good communication (verbal and written) skills; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component.; Provide personnel
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129 or Ms C Williams
(043) 702 7000 / 7131
Western C Ape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 3723000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate applications must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 40/42 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 71/2025/WC
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Wynberg
39
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; Knowledge of Physical Security procedures and processes; Safety
and Security Legislative Frameworks; PSIRA Grade C. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Good interpersonal relations; Planning and organising skills; Computer
literacy; Ability to operate security equipment; Understanding of confidentiality
in Government.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide access control; Improve safety in the building
or premises; Prohibit unauthorized items from entering or leaving the building
or premises; Watch CCTV cameras, Enroll staff on bio-metric system; Provide
access to staff coming to the premises over weekends.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
40
ANNEXURE J
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025
NOTE : The NPA invites unemployed South African learners on a TVET placement and
internship programme for University graduates for a period of 24 months (2026
- 2028). The applicants should either be studying towards a qualification from
a TVET College and expected to undertake a period of work experience to fulfill
the requirements of such qualification or have obtained a qualification from a
university or university of technology. This internship programme is a once off
opportunity for learners/ graduates, however those who previously participated
in the internship programme will not be considered. People with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The closing date is therefore extended to 17 November
2025.Generic requirements: Must be a South African citizen Must have no
criminal conviction(s) or case pending Learners must be unemployed and
never have participated in the programme Applications: All applications must
be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response e-mail addresses indicated
under each Post. Note: Applicants must submit applications on the most recent
Z83 form, which can be obtained on the website of any Public Service
Department or on the DPSA website link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za The Z83
must be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. Failure to submit applications
in the prescribed manner, will result in your application being disqualified. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents. All applications must reach the
NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays.
Applicants’ attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic
Response Handling System. Applications submitted in any other way other
than the published e-mail address will be treated as invalid. Please do not
contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your application to enquire if
your application has been received. If you have not received an
acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the closing date, only then
may you contact the NPA through the enquiries person listed in the advert. The
NPA reserves the right not to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from
us within six (6) months from the closing date of the advert, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. Applicants are advised that as from 1
January 2021 a new Z83 application form is in use. The new application for
employment form (Z83) can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.
From 1 January 2021 an application should be received using the incorrect
(old) application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants
who are successful must please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay
resettlement costs.
ERRATUM: Please note that the TVET placement and internship programme
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 38 dated 17 October 2025 must
read as follows: “The NPA invites unemployed South African learners on a
TVET placement and internship programme for University graduates for a
period of 24 months (2026 - 2028). The applicants should either be studying
towards a qualification from a TVET College and expected to undertake a
period of work experience to fulfil the requirements of such qualification or have
obtained a qualification from a university or university of technology. This
internship programme is a once off opportunity for learners/ graduates,
however those who previously participated in the internship programme will not
be considered. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The closing
date is therefore extended to 17 November 2025.
41
INTERNSHIP FOR 2026 TO 2028
(Period of 24 Months)
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/43 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: KIMFIN (X1 POST)
DPP: Kimberley
STIPEND : R6 659.25
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Finance and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ishmael Mofokeng Tel No: (053) 807 4507
APPLICATIONS : e mail kimfin@npa.gov.za
POST 40/44 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES REF NO: KIMHRM (X1 POST)
DPP: Kimberley
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ishmael Mofokeng Tel No: (053) 807 4507
APPLICATIONS : e mail kimhrm@npa.gov.za
42
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
The National School of Government (The NSG) contributes to the building of an effective, capable and
professional public service through the provision of relevant, mandatory training programmes. Suitably
qualify, dynamic, passionate and experienced persons are invited to apply for the vacant permanent
positions. Applications are requested to visit the NSG website at ww.thensg.gov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za
for information on the requirements and duties of the position.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted in the following ways: (1) by email, using the
relevant email address and quoting the reference number in the subject line,
(2) hand-delivered to the ZK Matthews Building, 70 Meintjies Street,
Sunnyside, Pretoria. Should you submit your application and CVs to the
address not as specified for the post, your application will be regarded as lost
and will not be considered. Applicants are encouraged to apply via the e-
recruitment system. For Attention: And Enquiries: Kindly contact Mr. Thabo
Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441 6108 or Mr. Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441-6017.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : Applications must consist of: A fully completed and signed new Z83 form with
a comprehensive CV containing contactable references. Use of the old Z83
Form will result in disqualification. Candidates should not attach certified
documents to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. The relevant
reference number must be written on the application form. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a technical exercise for the post (s). All appointments are subject to
personnel suitability checks such as security vetting, citizen verification,
financial records check, and qualifications verifications. Applications that do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements as well as applications that are
received late, will not be considered. The selection process of the SMS post
will be in line with the Senior Management Service requirements. The
successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement within
three months from the date of assumption of duties and where applicable to
disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests within a month. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department to achieve its employment equity targets. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender, and disability) through the filling of
this post. The NSG reserves the right not to make an appointment and to use
other recruitment processes. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme (Nyukela) is required for appointment of the SMS posts. Enrolment
for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The
NSG reserves the right not to make an appointment and to use other
recruitment processes. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/45 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: RESEARCH AND MARKET INTELLIGENCE REF NO:
NSG 20/2025
Job Purpose: To lead, design, and oversee economic research, policy analysis,
and market intelligence, as well as drive the implementation of the NSG’s
research agenda, capacity-building initiatives, and strategic representation in
relevant government forums.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor's degree or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 7) in Economic
Management, Data Sciences or a related field with a specialization in Applied
Economics, Behavioural Economics, Public Economics, Policy Analysis,
Statistics, Development Economics or another relevant discipline that
demonstrates advanced knowledge and practical application of economics will
43
be considered. A post-graduate qualification (NQF level 9 or 10) with
demonstrable research capability will be an added advantage. Faculty
affiliation at senior lecturer or Associate Professor level will give candidates a
competitive edge. The successful applicant will be subjected to security vetting
at an appropriate clearance level for senior managers. Experience: Extensive
proven and relevant experience of which five (5) years must be at a senior
managerial level, in applied economic research, modelling, capacity building
and project management. Experience in leading and managing research
projects and teams, preferably in an academic, research or public sector
context. Demonstrated ability to conduct high-level research and analysis,
formulate policies based on research outcomes, and provide strategic advice
to senior management. Experience in academic writing, publishing of papers,
management of journals and presentation. Experience working in higher and
further education environments. Knowledge: In-depth understanding of
macroeconomic principles, fiscal policy, and public economics. Knowledge of
relevant public sector legislation, including the Public Service Act, Public
Finance Management Act, and other regulatory frameworks. Proficiency in
both qualitative and quantitative research techniques, particularly in economic
and policy-related studies. In-depth knowledge of and experience in research,
knowledge, information and data management. In-depth knowledge of public
sector landscape and capacity building needs. Knowledge of professional
bodies and regulatory body requirements (e.g., South African Qualifications
Authority, Quality Council for Trades and Occupations, Council for Higher
Education). In- depth theoretical and practical knowledge of best practice and
cutting-edge research methodologies. Skills: Advanced theoretical and
practical knowledge of research as a discipline, preparing datasets for
quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Knowledge of broad analytical
techniques, such as statistics and econometrics, as well as mathematical and
operations research tools. Ability to analyse and draw reasonable inferences
from the analyses of financial and economic data. Advanced knowledge to
develop and validate research instruments/methods. Advanced knowledge of
data warehousing and mining. Advanced knowledge of multi-disciplinary
research and research environments. Ability to integrate, interrogate and
interpret knowledge and information. Knowledge in skills assessments and
identifying training needs. Proven advanced writing, proofreading and editing
skills. Academic research and publications, use of plagiarism checking tools.
Competencies: Must be able to provide a vision, set the direction for the
business unit and inspire others to deliver on the organisational mandate. Must
be able to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate specific activities to deliver the
desired outputs. Must be able to compile and manage budgets, control cash
flow, institute risk management and administer tender procurement processes
in accordance with generally recognised financial practices to ensure the
achievement of strategic organisational objectives. Must be able to initiate and
support organisational transformation and change to successfully implement
new initiatives and deliver on service delivery commitments. Must be able to
promote the generation and sharing of knowledge and learning to enhance the
collective knowledge of the organisation. Must be able to explore and
implement new ways of delivering services that contribute to improving
organisational processes to achieve organisational goals. Must be able to
systematically identify, analyse and resolve existing and anticipated problems
to reach optimum solutions in a timely manner. Must be able to manage and
encourage people, optimise their outputs and effectively manage relationships
in order to achieve organisational goals. Must be willing and able to deliver
services effectively and efficiently to put the spirit of customer service (Batho
Pele) into practice: Must be able to exchange information and ideas in a clear
and concise manner appropriate for the audience to explain, persuade,
convince and influence others to achieve the desired outcomes. Must be able
to display and build the highest standards of ethical and moral conduct to
promote confidence and trust in the Public Service. Personal Attributes:
Participate in professional development growth activities for maintaining
professional knowledge and staying current with curricular trends. Ability to
multi-task and organise, prioritise and follow multiple projects and tasks
through to completion with attention to detail. Ability to work independently
while contributing to a team environment. Ability to analyse problems, identify
solutions, take appropriate action, and resolve conflicts using independent
judgment and decision-making. Ability to establish and maintain effective
working relationships with management, employees, stakeholders and the
44
public. Integrity and honesty, detail-oriented, creative and innovative, ability to
work under pressure. Domestic and international travel and work extended
hours when required. Preference will be given to African Females, Youth,
African and Coloured Males and people with disability in accordance with our
employment equity requirements.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following Key Results Areas: Develop
and implement the NSG’s research agenda to address economic and public
policy priorities. Represent the NSG in Economic Cluster forums, providing
expert economic input and enhancing the institution's strategic positioning.
Oversee the analysis of socio-economic policies and advise on capacity
development interventions to improve public sector performance. Collaborate
internally to support curriculum design with content, particularly in economics,
based on research-driven insights. Produce high-quality research reports,
policy briefs, and economic analyses for stakeholders. Manage and oversee
collaborative research initiatives with academic institutions and government
departments. Lead the development and use of economic models to forecast
fiscal trends, labour market shifts, and policy impacts globally and locally.
Conduct scenario planning to inform the future of the South African public
sector and the NSG’s long-term strategy and public sector development
initiatives. Monitor and report on economic indicators relevant to public
governance and adjust strategies accordingly. Provide expert advice to senior
leadership based on economic analyses and research findings. Identify
strategic opportunities to align NSG’s programmes with the government’s
economic development priorities. Build strategic partnerships with government
bodies, universities, and think tanks to advance the NSG’s research agenda.
Represent the NSG at national and international economic forums to share
insights and enhance institutional visibility. Facilitate information sharing
through publications, conferences, and workshops to promote thought
leadership. Oversee the establishment and implementation of knowledge
management systems for effective research dissemination. Foster
interdepartmental collaboration to support data-driven decision-making and
learning within the NSG. Undertake market intelligence and data analysis
across organs of state to identify and inform capacity-building interventions.
Conduct skills gap analyses to address the evolving needs of public sector
governance and administration. Develop frameworks for measuring the impact
of capacity-building initiatives and learning programmes. Provide economic
data and research insights to support curriculum development for public sector
training. Provide strategic leadership and management for the Chief
Directorate. Ensure resource optimisation and performance excellence within
the research team. Develop frameworks for ethical data management and
compliance with research standards. Monitor and evaluate research outputs to
ensure alignment with institutional priorities. Promote professional
development to build a high-performing team.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment.MMSSMS@thensg.gov.za, or hand deliver to The
National School of Government, ZK Mathews Building, 70 Meintje Street,
Sunnyside, Pretoria.
45
ANNEXURE L
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. NOTE: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
46
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/46 : DIRECTOR: TAX LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING REF NO: S086/2025
Division: Office Of the General-Counsel (OGC)
Purpose: To draft and scrutinise all tax and other revenue legislation and
support its legislative processes, including stakeholder engagement, to
comment on draft legislation impacting on all tax and other legislation and to
advice on the interpretation of tax and other revenue legislation.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Law or LLB. A postgraduate / LLM qualification in Tax Law
will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle or
senior managerial level obtained in the legislative drafting. Knowledge and
experience in constitutional law and drafting of legal documents and/or
legislation. Experience in the Executive’s and Parliament’s processes for
considering draft legislation. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ , prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Drafting and Scrutiny of Tax and other Revenue Legislation: Develop key
design measures for the drafting of new and amendment tax and other revenue
legislation and draft the legislation. Scrutinise draft revenue legislation
prepared by another institution (e.g. SARS). Following the stakeholder
consultation, draft resultant amendments to draft revenue legislation. Oversee
the editing and document control of legislative documents for sound and clear
revenue legislation. Facilitate the translation of draft tax and other revenue Bills
into another official language. Revenue Legislative Process Engagement:
Participate in the stakeholder consultation engagements. Coordinate drafting
inputs from key stakeholders, e.g. SARS and tax practitioners. Facilitate
scrutiny of draft revenue legislation by the Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
(Department of Justice & Constitutional Development) and liaise with
Parliamentary Legal Advisers. Oversee engagement schedule on drafting co-
ordination within the National Treasury, Executive and Parliament. Support the
Parliamentary process on tax and other revenue Bills. Facilitate the translation
of draft Bills into other official language/s. Drafting and Scrutiny of Legal
Instruments issued under Tax and other Revenue Legislation, and Comment
on draft Legislation having implications for Revenue Legislation: Draft
regulations, notices and other legal instruments to be issued by the National
Treasury or the Minister of Finance. Scrutinise regulations, notices and other
legal instruments to be issued by the National Treasury or the Minister of
Finance prepared by other institutions (e.g. SARS). Align the editing and
document control of legislative documents for the legal instrument to be issued
by the National Treasury or the Minister of Finance. Co-ordinate and provide
input on draft legislation, having implications for tax and other revenue
legislation, initiated by other national departments submitted to the National
Treasury for input. Interpretation of Tax and other Revenue Legislation: Provide
advice on the interpretation of tax and other revenue legislation to internal and
external stakeholders. Liaise with other units in National Treasury or another
institution that should be consulted on interpretation. Facilitate opinions on
interpretation of tax and other revenue legislation from Office of the Chief State
Law Advisers or private legal practitioners.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/47 : DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT, DEFENCE AND GENERAL SECTOR REF NO:
S079/2025
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To exercise oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B national government
business enterprises (SOEs) in the transport, defence and general sectors and
participating in the influence policy development and planning of the
restructuring of State-Owned Entities (SOE’s).
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
47
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Finance or Economics. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at
a middle or senior managerial level in the sectors of transport, defence and
general sectors. Knowledge and experience in financial management, mergers
and acquisitions, strategy and/or economic regulation. Experience in financial
policy analysis and strategic planning. Knowledge of the Government’s Policy
framework. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Restructuring of SOEs: Identify areas for output pertaining to restructuring of
SOEs in the transport, defence and general sectors. Review the restructuring
or turnaround plans of the SOEs in the transport, defence and general sectors.
Participate in the restructuring of SOEs in the transport, defence and general
sectors in conjunction with other stakeholders. Provide strategic input on
restructuring initiatives. Oversight over SOEs: Participate in the review and
development of government legislation and regulations including but not limited
to PFMA, MFMA and NT Regulations. Assess the impact of sector regulations
on SOEs in the transport, defence and general sectors. Analyse sector policy
and legislation for conformity. Analyse industry structure and impact on SOEs
in the transport, defence and general sectors and the reciprocal impact on the
industry structure. Analyse industry trends and impact on SOEs in the
transport, defence and general sectors. Assess the alignment of corporate
plans of SOE’s and compare them to policy objectives. Exercise oversight over
Schedule 2 and 3B SOEs in the transport, defence and general sectors. PFMA
Oversight: Assess and respond to PFMA applications from SOEs in the
transport, defence and general sectors. Review of Contingent liabilities: Assess
guarantee requests received from SOEs. Provide inputs to request and advise
on whether guarantees should be granted.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/48 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL FINANCE RECOVERY SERVICES REF NO:
S081/2025
Division: Intergovernmental Relations Division (IGR)
Purpose: To manage all processes related to the preparation of financial
recovery plans as determined by Chapter 13 of the Municipal Finance
Management Act (MFMA).
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Public Finance or Public Administration or Economics or
Accounting/ Business Economics. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle or senior managerial level obtained in the development and reviewing
of a financial recovery framework. Knowledge and experience in the
implementation of a financial recovery framework. Undertaking of institutional
and organisational and service delivery arrangements in municipalities.
Knowledge and experience of the intergovernmental and fiscal framework.
Knowledge and experience in the coordinating of financial disputes.
Knowledge and experience in developing resolutions for financial challenges
within municipalities. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ , prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Implementation of the intervention and recovery framework in terms of Chapter
13 of the MFMA: Provide guidance to National Treasury and the Provincial
Treasuries on the implementation of discretionary and mandatory interventions
according to the criteria in Chapter 13 of the MFMA. Ensure that the
preparation of financial recovery plans is consistent with the processes,
procedures and timeframes outlined in the MFMA and any subsequent
resolutions. Assess and respond to requests for discretionary and mandatory
financial recovery plans received from Provinces. Monitor the implementation
48
of all mandatory recovery plans and progress in national interventions.
Appointment of service providers: Prepare Request for Quotations (RFQ) for
FRPs and develop functional criteria to appoint service providers on the MFRS
panel. Adjudicate proposals and bids received from Service Providers
according to Supply Chain Management practices. Assist in the appointment,
monitoring and management of National Cabinet Representatives and support
teams for national interventions. Undertake quality control and value for money
assessments in the preparation of financial recovery plans by service
providers. S139 advocacy and awareness: Participate in the ongoing
awareness and advocacy of S139 interventions, Strengthen the roll-out and
implementation of the NT’s strategic approach to interventions. Capacitate
Provincial Treasuries in the development of financial recovery plans and
monitoring the implementation thereof, S139 Knowledge Management: Assist
in the development of a S139 interventions toolkit. Identify and develop best
practices for FRP implementation to be shared across the LG sector, Develop
and maintain an FRP reporting database. Stakeholder Engagement: Respond
to clients’ concerns and initiate the correct interventions through the
determinations of the financial recovery framework. Consult stakeholders
through the MFRS framework and tools in the enhancement and effectiveness
of municipal performance. Provide support and advice on financial
management and recovery plans in local government.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/49 : DIRECTOR: WATER, ENERGY AND TELECOMS REF NO: S080/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To exercise oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B national government
State Owned Entities (SOEs) in the Water, energy and telecommunications
sectors and participate in policymaking pertaining to restructuring of SOEs.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Finance or Economics. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at
a middle or senior managerial level obtained in the water, energy and telecoms
sectors. Knowledge and experience of financial management, mergers and
acquisitions, strategy and economic regulation. Experience in financial policy
analysis and strategic planning. Knowledge of the Government’s Policy
framework on the management and oversight of SOEs. Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Restructuring of SOEs: Identify potential restructuring opportunities of SOEs in
the sectors in to achieve government’s objectives. Review the restructuring and
turn-around plans of SOEs in the sectors. Participate in the restructuring of
SOEs in the energy telecommunications and water sectors with other
departments. Provide strategic inputs on the repositioning and restructuring
initiatives of SOEs. SOEs Oversight: Assess the impact of regulatory changes
on SOEs in the sectors. Analyse sector policy and legislation for their correct
application and implementation. Participate in the review and development of
government legislation and regulations including but not limited to PFMA,
MFMA and NT Regulations. Analyse industry trends and structures impacting
on SOEs in the energy and telecommunications sectors. Assess and align
corporate plans of SOEs in the energy and telecommunications sectors with
policy objectives and initiate oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B SOEs. PFMA
and MFMA Oversight: Review PFMA and MFMA applications from SOEs in the
energy and telecommunications sectors. Make recommendations based on
requests in alignment with the related regulations. Review Contingent
Liabilities: Assess guarantee requests from SOEs. Provide inputs to the
request and advise whether guarantees should be granted.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
49
POST 40/50 : DIRECTOR: POLICY COSTINGS REF NO: S089/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To provide analysis enabling the calculation of the revenue
implications of tax proposals.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics/ Statistics/ Mathematics. A minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained in research and tax
policy analysis and formulation. Knowledge and experience of the broader
policy framework on tax revenue and related processes. Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ ,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Develop microsimulation models for corporate income tax (CIT), personal
income tax (PIT) and value-added tax (VAT): Develop excel-based
microsimulation models to simulate policy options for PIT, CIT, and VAT.
Perform regular updating of the microsimulation models. Use microsimulation
models to estimate the revenue and distributional impacts of proposed policy
interventions. Annual tax incentive reviews: Assist policy directorates with data
and methodological requirements to perform tax incentive reviews.
Preparation, publication and development of tax expenditure statement and
annual tax review (Tax Statistics publication): Assist with compiling the annual
tax review and ensure accuracy and integrity of data. Coordinate inputs from
the National Treasury Tax Policy unit into the publication. Provide inputs to the
South African Revenue Service (SARS) with the compiling of tables and graphs
on tax revenue statistical data. Conduct research on international tax
expenditure reporting and methodological best practices to enhance South
Africa’s current reporting. Determine data requirements on tax expenditures in
conjunction with SARS. Publish statistical tables and graphs for the tax
expenditure statement in the annual Budget Review. Assist directorates with
modelling the economic impact and revenue implications of different tax policy
proposals: Provide analysis to estimate the revenue implications of specific tax
proposals. Justify and motivate the quantification of economic commonness of
various taxes.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/51 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC PROCUREMENT NORMS AND STANDARDS REF
NO: S082/2025
Division: Office of The Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To research, design, and support the development and
implementation of the procurement regulatory framework, norms and
standards at provincial and local spheres of government.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Supply Chain Management or Law, or Economics or
Business Economics or Logistics. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle
or senior managerial level obtained in the supply chain environment.
Knowledge and experience of the public sector SCM legislative and regulatory
framework. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : SCM Policy Development and Implementation: Manage the research,
development, and support implementation of the procurement regulatory
framework, norms and standards at provincial and local spheres of
government. Manage the research, development, and support implementation
of the procurement regulatory framework, norms and standards including, but
not limited to: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; Public Procurement
Act; Public Finance Management Act; Municipal Finance Management Act;
50
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act; Any applicable regulatory
framework. Develop the norms and standards, instructions and guidelines for
implementation of the procurement regulatory framework for provincial and
municipal spheres of government, including, but not limited to: Demand
Management; Procurement Planning; Acquisition Management; Strategic
Sourcing; Contract Management; Logistics Management; Disposal
Management; Performance Management Reporting. Procurement regulatory
framework: Manage the research, design and development of a procurement
framework for public entities, departments, government components
applicable at provincial and local government that leads to improved
government / stakeholder interface and ease of doing business with
government, government policy, and strategic partners, Manage the research,
development, and support implementation of government procurement policy,
norms and standards that aligns with and is responsive to broad government
policy objectives including but not limited to: Public Procurement Act
Regulations; Treasury Regulations; Procurement norms and standards;
Procurement risk management; Procurement policy performance indicators;
Code of conduct for all persons involved in procurement at all spheres of
government including suppliers. Manage the research, development, and
support implementation of government preferential procurement policies
applicable at provincial and local spheres of government including but not
limited to: Preferential procurement strategy and performance indicators for;
Industrial Procurement Policies Transformation and black economic
empowerment; Preferential procurement performance monitoring; Preferential
procurement system. Procurement norms and standards: Manage the
research, development and implementation of supplier management
framework as follows: Develop a code of conduct for all persons involved in
procurement; Develop instructions and guidelines for implementation of the
regulatory framework; Guide and provide technical support to procuring
institutions on the interpretation and application of the regulatory framework;
Guide procuring institutions on supplier restriction/ debarment procedures.
Research, develop and implement uniform bid documents including
Procurement Specifications; Procurement Templates; Standard Operating
Procedures. Procurement Continuous Improvement: Perform research on best
practices regarding procurement policy, norms and standards, Identify and
recommend new and alternative solutions for procurement policy, norms and
standards. Procurement Knowledge and Information Management: Manage
procurement policy, norms, and standards information. Manage and advise the
content of procurement policies by other government institutions.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/52 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: VALUE-ADDED TAX, EXCISE AND SUB-NATIONAL
TAXES REF NO: S087/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To develop tax policy pertaining to Value Added Tax, Excise Taxes,
Fiscal Decentralisation and other consumption taxes to support fiscal reform in
South Africa; and to assist in the maintenance of a coherent indirect tax policy
framework.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Taxation. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of
which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained
in research and policy analysis (formulation). Knowledge and experience of the
broader tax policy framework.
DUTIES : Value Added Tax: Review and analyse VAT policy regarding Distributional
impact, Inflationary impact, and Revenue impact. Review the implications of
proposed amendments to the VAT Act and liaise with SARS. Engage in
stakeholder consultation and client liaison with written replies and comments.
Engage legal drafters to incorporate policy proposals and amendments into
VAT law as intended including submissions. Excise Taxation: Provide Excise
Tax policy advice regarding Distributional impact, Inflationary impact, and
51
Revenue impact, especially relating to Alcohol, Tobacco taxes, Health
Promotion Levy, and any other related excise tax. Initiate research and review
Excise Tax policy considerations. Engage in stakeholder consultation and client
liaison with written replies and comments. Analyse the implications of proposed
amendments to the Customs and Excise Act and liaise with SARS. Engage
legal drafters regarding policy proposals and amendments pertaining to
Customs and Excise. Fiscal Decentralization: Investigate appropriate tax
instruments and revenue-sharing arrangements for sub-national spheres of
government. Review tax proposals by provinces and local governments and
provide advice in respect of: Provincial taxes (including fuel taxes); Municipal
taxes (including property rates and user fee surcharges); Regional Services
Councils levies replacement (including local business tax, tax sharing, and
grant replacement options). Engage Intergovernmental Relations business unit
(IGR) and provide tax policy advice. Liaise with legal drafters on policy
proposals and amendments for incorporation into law. Gambling Taxes and
other indirect taxes: Research and prepare, develop, design, and review other
indirect taxes for consideration and inclusion. Provide policy advice with
pertaining to gambling taxes and other indirect taxes. Develop databases on
tax policy formulation, analysis of macro-economic impacts, research, review,
and tax policy consideration. Analyse implications of proposed amendments to
the legal framework and liaise with SARS, and other stakeholders. Money Bills:
Evaluate the funding arrangements of extra-budgetary agencies by way of
earmarked levies and / or user charges.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/53 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: TAX REVENUE REF NO: S091/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To Assist in the provision of tax revenue analysis and tax revenue
forecasting.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Econometrics or Statistics. A minimum of 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in research, tax policy analysis, and formulation.
Knowledge and experience of the broader policy framework on tax revenue
and related processes. Exposure to statistical and econometric modelling
techniques.
DUTIES : Prepare tax revenue estimates for the annual Budget Review and Medium-
Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS): Estimates of tax revenue by tax
instrument for the annual Budget Review – the focus being of the main tax
instruments, i.e. personal income tax (PIT), value-added tax (VAT), corporate
income tax (CIT), fuel taxes, excise duties and customs duties. Revised tax
revenue estimates at the time of the MTBPS. Revisions to tax revenue
estimates between the annual Budget Review and MTBPS for inputs into
formulating a revised fiscal framework. Preparation of basic statistical tables
and graphs of tax revenues for the annual Budget Review and MTBPS.
Prepare analytical inputs (e.g. notes, presentations) to communicate revenue
trends and outlook as inputs into various fiscal strategy forums. Monitor
monthly tax revenues and revise tax revenue estimates: Monitor monthly tax
revenues to track deviations from estimates and provide plausible explanations
for deviations by tax instrument. Develop statistical and econometric
techniques to improve on the quality and accuracy of tax revenue estimates:
Develop statistical and econometric models to forecast tax revenues in both
macro data and micro data concepts. Make use of basic regression techniques
and where appropriate more advanced econometric and statistical modelling.
Convene the Revenue Analysis Working Committee (RAWC): Arrange the
logistics of the RAWC meetings. Prepare the tax revenue estimates on behalf
of the Tax Revenue and Policy Costings chief directorate for these meetings.
Be able to defend these estimates at these meetings. Keep minutes of these
meetings. Prepare the inputs of the Tax Revenue and Policy Costings chief
director for deliberations by the RAWC meetings and keep minutes of the
outcome of such deliberations.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
52
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEBT ISSUANCE AND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S078/2025
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To assist with the financing of the government’s borrowing
requirements through the issuance of government securities in the domestic
and international capital markets.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Finance or Statistics or Investment Management or Mathematical Sciences.
A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in financial markets, fixed-income
trading, and research. Exposure to the money, banking, and capital markets.
Knowledge and experience in quantitative research methodologies.
Knowledge and experience in market analysis information for utilisation in the
broader business. Knowledge and experience in dealing with various foreign
interest rate markets and currencies. Experience in qualitative and quantitative
analysis of domestic and foreign capital markets.
DUTIES : Finance Borrowing in Domestic and International Capital Markets: Assist and
provide inputs to formulate funding strategy, budget review and medium-term
budget. Assist with quantitative and qualitative analysis and support the debt
management issuances of government securities in the domestic and
international capital markets. Familiarise and stay abreast of the funding
requirements in the support and liaison with relevant stakeholders. Perform
market, quantitative and yields analysis for bond auction announcements and
recommend bonds to be issued. Provide support during the weekly bond
auctions, follow up, report on problems arising from the auctions, and provide
inputs into the compilation of auction reports. Stakeholder Engagement:
Provide input on the development and implementation tools to maintain and
broaden the investor base. Assist with the implementation of an investor
website to improve stakeholder engagement. Provide assist on domestic and
foreign investors’ interaction through provision of support during roadshows.
Assist with the establishment of relationships with banks, domestic and foreign
investors and provide an administrative support based on the engagement with
lawyers on certain conditional requirements. Disclose listing in Domestic and
Offshore Bond Issuance: Assist with the annual filing process of the 18K form
with foreign stakeholders like the U.S. Security Exchange Commission and
Japan. Support the disclosure and listing requirements associated with
domestic and offshore bond issuance. Engage stakeholders on general
information in the sourcing and exchange of processing. Benchmarking and
Research on Markets Volatility: Assist with research initiatives on capital
markets pertaining to market volatility in the prudent management of debt.
Assist with research on local and international markets and stay abreast of
developments, which may have an impact on debt management issues. Assist
with the analysis of briefing notes and speeches.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 40/55 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S084/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To properly maintain the finance lease register for efficient, effective
and economical management of voice and data related contracts or
transactions. Maintain a pool register for assets transferred to the department
upon expiry of the initial finance lease period, make recommendations to
dispose redundant pool equipment, verify and account for all pool equipment.
To communicate with clients for timely upgrading of contracts.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Financial
53
Accounting or Supply Management or Business Administration. A minimum of
2 years’ experience obtained in the financial management accounting
environment. Knowledge and experience of the broader Financial
Management and Accounting and Asset Management frameworks.
DUTIES : Maintain the Finance Lease and Pool Register and Voice and Data Line
Transactions: Maintain an updated finance lease and pool register supported
by authorised order documentation detailing the relevant contract terms. Keep
record of start and end date of contracts, rates, cost centre, and applicable
asset details. Issue new pool equipment for relevant users in support of
authorised documentation. Maintain records of expired contracts and
purchases 100% financed contracts. Recover redundant pool equipment from
business and align with movements on finance lease and pool registers.
Comply with relevant application statutes, regulations and departmental
prescripts pertaining to finance leases, Reconcile the finance lease and pool
register. Disposal of Redundant or Obsolete Assets: Identify redundant or
obsolete assets on and recommend for disposal in accordance with the
Departments disposal policy. Update the pool register with approved disposals
and record the reasons for disposal in alignment with relevant prescribes.
Electronic Confirm Existence of Pool Assets (cellular phones and 3G cards):
Update the pool register with the electronic verification outcome and report
findings to relevant authority. Execute verification of activities in accordance
with the approved projects deliverables. Departmental Policies, Procedures
and Prescripts: Assist and provide input with the development and
maintenance of asset management policies, procedures and prescripts of the
Department. Assist with the development and maintenance of asset
acquisition, maintenance, and disposal plans.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
54
ANNEXURE M
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Judicial Remuneration and Condition of Services: Pretoria/
Constitutional Court: Braamfontein/: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of
the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver
applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management,
188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685
Gauteng/Land Court Randburg/Johannesburg/Pretoria: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street,
Johannesburg
Limpopo/ Polokwane/ Thohoyandou: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice
Service Centre, Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division,
Polokwane, 36 Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699
KwaZulu-Natal/ Durban/Pietermaritzburg: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane
Streets, Durban, 4000.
Eastern Cape/East London/Makhanda/Mthata/ Qheberha /Bisho: Quoting
the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge,
5206, East London. Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western
Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
55
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/56 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/279/OCJ
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance. with
the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, a minimum of LLB Degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 8)
and a minimum of eight (8) years’ experience as a Registrar., A valid Driver’s
license will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
registry duties, knowledge of legislative framework governing the public
service, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge of Quasi-Judicial, knowledge of Case flow
management, knowledge of Court documentation management and Human
Resource Management, Batho Pele Principles, Numerical Skills, Problem
solving, Decision-making skills, Computer literacy (MS Office), Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal), Good people skills/ interpersonal
relations, Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Interviewing
skills, Work ethic and motivation, Professional appearance and conduct, Self-
management, Ability to work under pressure and solve problems,
Confidentiality, Resilience, Honesty and integrity, Flexibility, Personal
motivation and creative thinking.
DUTIES : Manage the Information and case/ court documentation Management System:
Implement information desk in the court, Develop and maintain a complaints
management system, Interface with external court stakeholders on a regular
basis, ensure that the checking of relevant registers is done in terms of the
codes, ensure that accurate statistics is furnished to PSC on a monthly basis,
Provide all reports within the given time limits. Provide support to court and
case flow management / Quasi-Judicial functions: Develop & implement case
management strategies, Review and implement projects to improve court
efficiency regularly, Implement a case/ court documentation and information
management system, Coordinate case flow management meetings, Attend to
default judgment applications and taxation of attorneys bills of costs, Ensure
court processes are issued, Implement Service Level Agreements and
Strategic Court projects: Ensure that all J33 requests to Service Providers are
timeously returned, Liaise with the service provider on a regular basis to ensure
smooth service delivery, Peruse proposed amendments received from the
rules board and provide comments, if any to them, Propose amendment to
practice directives of the JP and provide drafts if requested, Attend to the
implementation of the new court practices, Provide leadership of the High
Court: Develop annual institutional performance reports & other statutory
reports, Give direction and guidance to the court based on best court
management practices, Lead transformation in the High court, Supervise and
develop staff, Ensure general supervision of employees, Allocate duties and
perform quality control on the work delivered by officials, Manage leave of staff,
Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work, Manage
56
performance and conduct discipline of employees, Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively, Develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning, Address enquiries and
provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (040) 603 5000
HR Enquiries: Ms P Biko Tel No: (040) 608 7700
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/279/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 40/57 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/280/OCJ
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance. with
the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, a minimum of LLB Degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 8)
and a minimum of eight (8) years’ experience as a Registrar., A valid Driver’s
license will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
registry duties, knowledge of legislative framework governing the public
service, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge of Quasi-Judicial, knowledge of Case flow
management, knowledge of Court documentation management and Human
Resource Management, Batho Pele Principles, Numerical Skills, Problem
solving, Decision-making skills, Computer literacy (MS Office), Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal), Good people skills/ interpersonal
relations, Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Interviewing
skills, Work ethic and motivation, Professional appearance and conduct, Self-
management, Ability to work under pressure and solve problems,
Confidentiality, Resilience, Honesty and integrity, Flexibility, Personal
motivation and creative thinking.
DUTIES : Manage the Information and case/ court documentation Management System:
Implement information desk in the court, Develop and maintain a complaints
management system, Interface with external court stakeholders on a regular
basis, ensure that the checking of relevant registers is done in terms of the
codes, ensure that accurate statistics is furnished to PSC on a monthly basis,
Provide all reports within the given time limits. Provide support to court and
case flow management / Quasi-Judicial functions: Develop & implement case
management strategies, Review and implement projects to improve court
efficiency regularly, Implement a case/ court documentation and information
management system, Coordinate case flow management meetings, Attend to
default judgment applications and taxation of attorneys bills of costs, Ensure
court processes are issued, Implement Service Level Agreements and
Strategic Court projects: Ensure that all J33 requests to Service Providers are
timeously returned, Liaise with the service provider on a regular basis to ensure
smooth service delivery, Peruse proposed amendments received from the
rules board and provide comments, if any to them, Propose amendment to
practice directives of the JP and provide drafts if requested, Attend to the
implementation of the new court practices, Provide leadership of the High
Court: Develop annual institutional performance reports & other statutory
reports, Give direction and guidance to the court based on best court
management practices, Lead transformation in the High court, Supervise and
develop staff, Ensure general supervision of employees, Allocate duties and
perform quality control on the work delivered by officials, Manage leave of staff,
Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work, Manage
performance and conduct discipline of employees, Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively, Develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning, Address enquiries and
provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7458
HR Enquiries: Ms K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7575
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/280/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
57
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 40/58 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/281/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of the High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Degree in LLB at NQF level 8. A minimum of two (2)
years’ in the relevant field and a valid Driver’s license. Superior court or
litigation experience will be an added advantage. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act and related labour laws & Departmental policies, Knowledge
of the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995, Labour and Labour Appeal Court Rules
and Practice Manual, Employment Equity Act, Practice Manual of the Court,
Sound understanding of South African law and judicial system, Interpretation
and application of the law, Batho Pele Principles. Communication skills (verbal
and written), Problem solving and decision-making skills, Excellent research
and analytical skills, Report writing and editing skills, Problem solving skills,
Financial management skills, Strategic skills, Analytical skills, Presentation
skills, Planning and organizing skills, Computer literacy, (Word, PowerPoint &
Excel,). Applied Strategic Thinking, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Communication and Information Management, Customer Focus and
Responsiveness, Developing Others, Diversity Management, Impact and
Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems,
Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and Organizing, Problem Solving
and Decision Making, Project Management and Team Leadership.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, Analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, Provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, Carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, Provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material, Study all the relevant material and provide a thorough
analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, Research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, Quality assure all references and
footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original text to ensure
correctness and accuracy, Correct mistakes (typos) with the help of track
changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed changes. Ensure
that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case law, practice
directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of
recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case law, provide
support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have access to
the latest legal information, Keep up breast with recent developments in
relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (018) 608 7700
HR Related Enquiries; Ms P Biko Tel No: (040) 608 7700/
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/281/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/59 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/282/OCJ
SALARY : R397 117 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Legal Interpreting/ equivalent qualification at
(NQF level 6), A minimum of two (2) years’ experience as a Court Interpreter,
58
A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies:
Adherence to Batho Pele and the OCJ Principles, Knowledge of Court
proceedings, Cultural diversity, Knowledge of Policies, Prescripts, and
Legislation, Full command of the language, Communication (oral and written)
skills, Listening skills, Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Outlook and
Internet, etc.), Problem solving, Good Interpersonal relations, Planning and
organizing, Good people skills, Intermediate typing skills), Customer service
orientation, Confidentiality, Ability to work under pressure, Ability to work
independently, Professionalism, Ability and willingness to learn, High level of
reliability, Time bound, Creative and analytical thinking, Self-driven and
Meticulous.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services in high profile matters: Interpret in complex cases,
interpret in criminal, civil, and Labour Court, interpret in small claims court,
interpret in disciplinary hearing, Interpret in Conciliation and Arbitration,
interpret in confession, Interpret pre-trial proceedings and consultations.
Control, supervise and attend to personnel administrative aspects of
interpreters: Provide mentoring and coaching to junior/ senior interpreters,
manage performance agreement contracts, draw a schedule for replacement
of Court Interpreters, Control leave of Court interpreters and submit Court hour
registers, Quarterly submit probation reports, Monitor subordinates on EHWP.
Translate Legal documents and exhibits: Study and analyse the source
documents, conduct necessary research and consult, Check, edit and revise
the translated documents, Translate official documents and mechanically
recorded audio material. Procure foreign language interpreters and casuals in
line with PFMA and the relevant policy: Report statistical to be generated and
escalated to the cluster manager of consolidation, Authorise payment of foreign
language interpreters and casuals, Recommend lowest rate to the cluster
manager for the Regional Office’s approval. Develop terminology: Harvest if
terminology, Database development, Provide terms and their respective
meanings in the glossary register, Supervise and develop staff, Ensure general
supervision of employees, Allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by officials, Manage leave of staff, Advise and lead supervisees
with regard to all aspects of the work, Manage performance, conduct and
discipline of employees, Ensure that all employees are trained and developed
to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively,
Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure
efficient and effective functioning and Address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (018) 608 7700
HR Related Enquiries; Ms P Biko Tel No: (040) 608 7700/
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/282/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/60 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/283/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Judicial Remuneration and Condition of Services: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. National Diploma in Public Administration/
Human Resource Management/ Public Relations or relevant qualification at
NQF Level 6. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the relevant field or similar
environment. PERSAL experience introduction Certificate will be an
advantage.
DUTIES : Render efficient and effective administrative support to the smooth functioning
of JRCS. The role of an administrative officer is to oversee administrative
operations within the unit, ensuring efficiency and compliance with the Judge
Remuneration and Conditions of Service Act 47, 2001, policies and
procedures. The administrative officer will be expected to manage
administrative staff, handle correspondence, coordinate office activities, and
maintain records of the unit. Tasks will include approving transactions on
PERSAL, record-keeping, correspondence management, scheduling, and
ensuring smooth office operations. Ensure general supervision of employees.
Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered by officials.
Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed in order to deliver work of the required standard
59
efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement, and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning of JRCS.
ENQUIRIES Technical Related Enquiries: Mr A Slingers email AlSlingers@judiciary.org.za
HR Related Enquiries; Ms L Makula Tel No: (018) 397 7064/7000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/283/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/61 : HANDYMAN (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of the High Court:
Mthatha high Court Ref No: 2025/284/OCJ
Makhanda High Court Ref No: 2025/285/OCJ
Gqeberha High Court Ref No: 2025/286/OCJ
Bisho High Court Ref No: 2025/287/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must be
physical healthy. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Occupational Health
and safety act. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power
tools, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Communication skills (verbal & written),
Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical
skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills, Typing skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (018) 608 7700
HR Related Enquiries; Ms P Biko Tel No: (040) 608 7700
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to:
Mthatha high Court: 2025/284/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Makhanda High Court: 2025/285/OCJ@Judiciary.org.za
Gqeberha High Court: 2025/286/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Bisho High Court: 2025/287/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/62 : HANDYMAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Limpopo Division of the High Court:
Polokwane Ref No: 2025/288/OCJ
Thohoyandou Ref No: 2025/289/OCJ
60
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must be
physical healthy. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Occupational Health
and safety act. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power
tools, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Communication skills (verbal & written),
Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical
skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills, Typing skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms ER Ramaphakela Tel No: (015) 495 1744
HR Related Enquiries; Mr AI Nemukula Tel No: (015) 495 1745/ Mr BM Tjiane
Tel No: (015) 496 1447
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to:
Polokwane: 2025/288/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Thohoyandou: 2025/289/0CJ@judiciary.org
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/63 : HANDYMAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Kwa Zulu Natal Division of the High Court Division of The High Court:
Pietermaritzburg Ref No: 2025/290/OCJ
Durban Ref No: 2025/291/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must be
physical healthy. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Occupational Health
and safety act. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power
tools, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Communication skills (verbal & written),
Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical
skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills, Typing skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
61
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 372 3176
HR Related Enquiries; Ms N Naidoo Tel No: (031) 372 3176
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: Pietermaritzburg:
2025/290/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Durban: 2025/291/0CJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
SASSETA FUNDED GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 2025 TO 2027 (24 MONTHS)
The Office of the Chief Justice would like to invite qualifying graduates to apply to participate in an
internship programme in the 2025 To 2027 financial year. Applicants must be unemployed graduates,
should not have participated in an internship programme previously, and must be a South African citizen.
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given
to persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th
Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685
Free State: Provincial Service Centre/Free State Division of the High Court
(Bloemfontein): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X20612,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State Division of
the High Court, Cnr President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301
Gauteng: Provincial Service Centre/Land Claims Court
(Randburg)/Johannesburg High Court/Pretoria High Court/Labour and Labour
Appeals Court: Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the
12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg, 2001
KwaZulu-Natal: Provincial Service Centre/Durban/Pietermaritzburg: Quoting
the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications
can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, Cnr Somtseu & Stalwart
Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000
Western Cape: Provincial Service Centre/Western Cape Division of the High
Court (Cape Town): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the Chief
Justice, Provincial Service Centre, 30 Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new Z83 application form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or
on www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies/www.judiciary.org.za. Received applications
using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
The completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated
CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of: Matric
certificate, academic transcripts (qualification/s with 360/480 credits as
recognised by SAQA and academic record) and ID). All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
62
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Candidates wishing to apply for an internship
outside their area of residence must be willing to find their own accommodation
and transportation considering that they will be earning a stipend. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. Applicants will be expected to be available for assessments
and selection interviews at a time, date and place as determined by the
Department. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) and National
Diploma should be NQF Level 6 (with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA). All
appointments for internship are subject to the verification and pre-screening
process. The OCJ reserves the right not to make an appointment.
Correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates only. Please
direct your application to the relevant province and complete a separate
application for each reference number.
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/64 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME ADMINISTRATION (SAJEI) REF NO:
2025/292/OCJ (X2 INTERNS)
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma/Degree in Public
Management/Office Management/Public Management and Governance or
relevant equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised
by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms P Mogale Tel No: (010) 493 2500
: HR related enquiries: Mr M Mbele/Ms A Nthompe, Tel No: (010) 493 2689
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2025/192/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 40/65 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME COURT ADMINISTRATION SERVICES
(LEGAL)
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Pretoria Ref No: 2025/293/OCJ (X1 Intern)
Land Court: Randburg Ref No: 2025/294/OCJ (X1 Intern)
Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg, Ref No: 2025/295/OCJ (X1
Intern)
Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Braamfontein, Ref No: 2025/296/OCJ (X1
Intern)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and an LLB Degree at NQF level 8 with 480 credits as
recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Ms L Netshitomboni Tel No: (010) 494 8520
Technical Enquiries Ms N Shandu Tel No: (010) 012 315 7602 (Pretoria)
Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486 (Johannesburg)
Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 5392/5670 (Randburg)
Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238 (Braamfontein)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: Gauteng Division of the High Court:
Pretoria, Ref No: 2025/293/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Land Court: Randburg, Ref No: 2025/294/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg, Ref No:
2025/295/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Braamfontein, Ref No:
2025/296/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
POST 40/66 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME COURT ADMINISTRATION SERVICES LEGAL
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of the High Court Ref No: 2025/297/OCJ (X1 Intern)
Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Cape Town Ref No: OCJ 2025/298/OCJ
(X1 Intern)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma/Degree in Public
Administration / Management or a relevant (equivalent) qualification at NQF
level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA.
63
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 429 4029
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: Gauteng Division of the High Court:
Pretoria, Ref No: 2025/297/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Land Court: Randburg, Ref No: 2025/298/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals
POST 40/67 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME COURT ADMINISTRATION SERVICES LEGAL
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE Durban High Court Ref No: 2025/299/OCJ (X1 Intern)
Labour Court Durban Ref No: 2025/300/OCJ (X1 Intern)
Pietermaritzburg High Court Ref No: 2025/301/OCJ (X1 Intern)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and an LLB Degree at NQF level 8 with 480 credits as
recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : HR Related Enquiries, Ms N Naidoo Tel No: (031) 372 3176
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: Durban High Court,
2025/299/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Labour Court Durban, Ref No: 2025/300/OCJ@judiciary.oeg.za
Pietermaritzburg High Court, 2025/301/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals
POST 40/68 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME PUBLIC ADMINISTARTION REF NO:
2025/302/OCJ (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Service Centre (Durban)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma/Degree in Public
Management/Office Management/Public Management and Governance or
relevant equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised
by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Technical /HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1721
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/302/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
POST 40/69 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMECOURT ADMINISTRATION SERVICES
(LEGAL) REF NO: 2025/303/OCJ (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : Free State Division of the High Court (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and an LLB Degree at NQF level 8 with 480 credits as
recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Technical /HR Enquiries: Ms N de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4585
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/303/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
POST 40/70 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 2025/304/OCJ
(X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R7 700.per month
CENTRE : Free State High Court: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma/Degree in Public
Management /Public Administration or a relevant equivalent qualification at
NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR Enquiries: Ms N de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4585
NOTE : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/304/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
64
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed.
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
(1) a technical exercise; (2) a generic managerial competency assessment;
and (3) personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification,
financial records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected
to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interests declaration
form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. Note: Prior to
appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/71 : DIRECTOR: PRODUCTIVITY AND CAPABILITY MEASUREMENT REF NO:
DPSA 14/2025
Purpose: To manage the development and implementation of prescripts for
Productivity and Capability Measurement.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package)
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 492 122 is possible,
subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employee
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured according to personal needs
within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate and qualification at NQF level 7 in Public Administration /
Public Management / Business Administration / Management Services /
Industrial and Organisational Psychology / Operations or Production
Management as recognised by SAQA. Minimum 5 years at Middle / Senior
management. Minimum 8 years’ appropriate experience in Operations
Management and Service Delivery Improvement environment. Knowledge of
65
the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service legislative and
policy frameworks, and Government planning frameworks, including the
National Development Plan (NDP) and key strategic priorities of government.
Productivity measurement frameworks, tools, and methodologies.
Understanding of the Operations Management Framework and systems of
organisational efficiency and effectiveness. Attributes: Integrity, ethical
conduct, honesty, reliability, accountability, confidentiality, loyalty, and
professionalism. Managerial Skills: Strategic leadership and thinking,
stakeholder management and coordination, decision-making, problem-solving,
financial and human resource management, project and program
management, policy development, research, monitoring and evaluation, and
change management. Diversity management, conflict management,
teamwork, and confidentiality. Generic Skills: Excellent written and verbal
communication, report writing, facilitation, negotiation, presentation,
interpersonal relations, information management, and computer literacy.
Technical Skills: Productivity and capability measurement frameworks and
tools, business process management, data analysis and impact evaluation,
organisational performance assessment, and innovation for process
improvement.
DUTIES : Lead the development and review of prescripts for Productivity and Capability
Measurement, including policies, frameworks, norms and standards,
directives, circulars and guidelines. Institutionalise productivity and capability
measurement frameworks through research, systems development, and the
establishment of enabling processes and standards. Provide technical and
implementation support to national and provincial departments by facilitating
management briefings, offering advisory and capacity-building services, and
conducting trend analyses on productivity assessment outcomes. Manage
monitoring and evaluation of compliance and impact, including the collection
and analysis of data, monitoring of departmental compliance, conducting
impact studies and evaluations, and producing case study and trend analysis
reports. Develop and maintain systems and tools for measuring and analysing
organisational productivity and capability performance. Oversee the
operations, systems, and performance management of the Directorate,
including annual and operational planning, budgeting, performance reporting,
human and financial resource management, and audit compliance. Provide
strategic support to governance structures within the Department and
contribute to Chief Directorate policy, compliance and performance reports.
Establish and manage relations with stakeholders within the area of
productivity and capability measurements
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. Pillay Tel No: (012) 336 1334
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert142025@dpsa.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 40/72 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DPSA15/2025
Purpose To develop and implement the Performance Management
Development Systems prescripts for Public service.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration package)
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 247 574 is possible,
subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured according to
personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Human
Resource Management / Human Resource Development / Public
Administration / Industrial and Organisational Psychology or a related
qualification. Five (5) years of experience in a human resource management
environment. Develop and implement performance management and
development system prescripts within the public services. Provide advice and
technical support to departments on performance management and
66
development systems matters. Monitoring the implementation and compliance
of performance management and development systems. Provide support in
the development and implementation of all the operations, systems, and
processes of the Directorate. knowledge of the laws, regulations, and practices
applicable to human resource practices in the Public Service, in particular the
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, the Constitution, Employment
Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act,
SAQA Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, Access to Information Act,
and the Labour Relations Act, Ability to work in a team, networking and building
bonds, initiative, applying technology, communication skills, negotiation,
information gathering, decision-making, and problem-solving. Monitoring and
evaluation, research, data analysis, public policy analysis, policy writing, and
report writing.
DUTIES : Conduct research on performance management and development systems.
Provide guidance on the development and implementation of performance
management and development systems prescripts. Develop and submit
prescripts (policies, norms and standards, directives, circulars, frameworks
and guidelines) on performance management and development systems for
approval by the relevant approval authority. Provide capacity building to
National and Provincial Departments, and relevant institutions to empower
them on performance management and development systems. Monitor and
report compliance by National and Provincial departments on implementation
of the prescripts and communicate remedial measures to the relevant
departments for improvements. Provide Information, advice and support on
performance management and development systems prescripts and capability
to the MPSA, Cabinet, Parliament and other internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Harris Tel No: (012) 336 1520
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert152025@dpsa.gov.za
67
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref no. must
appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided, the application may not
be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources Management,
Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic Campus, corner of
Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 17 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
and the selection panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will
further recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-
based assessment. The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela
Programme) as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must
be completed before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the
SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/73 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MARKET ENQUIRIES, MERGER/ACQUISITIONS AND
ABUSE OF DOMINANCE REF NO: T&CB-023
Overview: To provide strategic leadership and overall management of the dtic’s
legal mandate concerning merger negotiations, acquisitions, abuse of
dominance interventions and, market inquiries under the Competition Act, 1998
in support of South Africa’s competition policy, economic deconcentration, and
transformation objectives.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics
/Commerce/ Public Policy/Competition or related field. 5 years’ relevant
experience at a senior managerial level in an economic environment in both
the private and public sectors. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience
in merger negotiations, acquisitions, and public interest commitments. In-depth
knowledge of the Competition Act, competition enforcement, regulatory
frameworks and policy formulation. Experience in market inquiries, anti-
competitive conduct cases and abuse of dominance interventions. Strong
stakeholder management and negotiation skills with regulators, firms, and
multinational investors. Proven ability in strategic planning, programme and
project management, and monitoring/evaluation. Excellent policy analysis,
research, report writing, presentation and communication skills. Competence
in people management, financial management, and leadership. Computer
literacy (MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Strategic Leadership: Oversee the development and execution of strategies on
mergers, abuse of dominance, and market inquiries. Provide policy guidance
68
aligned with competition and transformation goals. Interpret amendments to
the Competition Act and oversee their implementation. Market Inquiries:
Oversee market inquiry processes, stakeholder engagement, and
implementation of recommendations. Facilitate proactive market inquiries in
consultation with the Competition Commission. Mergers and Public Interest
Commitments: Provide technical advice and lead negotiations with merging
parties. Ensure alignment of merger conditions with SA’s investment and
transformation goals. Oversee development of Merger Framework Agreements
signed by the Minister. Abuse of Dominance and Market Conduct: Oversee
strategies to address abuse of dominance concerns. Develop remedial
measures for anti-competitive conduct. Identify and assess cases of abuse of
market power by dominant firms. Stakeholder and Inter-Governmental
Relations: Facilitate engagements with regulators, government departments,
and industry bodies. Represent the dtic in policy and technical forums.
Negotiate merger remedies and align enforcement with regional frameworks
(e.g. AfCFTA). Chief Directorate Management: Oversee strategic, financial,
and human resource management of the Chief Directorate. Lead the execution
of operational plans. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting: Oversee systems
to monitor pre-merger implementation and market conduct. Track
implementation of public interest commitments and produce regular reports for
executive and parliamentary oversight.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
POST 40/74 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPATIAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & ECONOMIC
TRANSFORMATION REF NO: SID& ET - 003
Overview: To provide strategic and operational support to the Deputy Director-
General: SID&ET with regard to the implementation of organizational strategies
to ensure effective and efficient operations of the dtic.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics / Finance
/ Business Admin / Public Management or related field. 5 years’ relevant
experience at senior managerial level in Operations / Strategy in both public
and private sectors. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in strategic
and operational planning, programme management and organisational
performance monitoring. Knowledge of government planning frameworks
(MTSF, MTEF, SDIP, APPs, DPME guidelines). Strong stakeholder
management skills with experience in engaging with government, SOEs,
labour, business, Parliament and international partners. Competence in
governance, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and public sector compliance
frameworks. Computer Literacy (MS Office packages). Proven ability to
manage people, financial resources and institutional processes. Excellent
analytical, problem-solving, research, report writing, and presentation skills.
Strong leadership, interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to represent
the Branch at senior forums (EXBO, OPSCOM, Parliamentary Committees,
Cabinet memoranda).
DUTIES : Strategy and Planning: Provide leadership in the development and
implementation of Divisional strategies and operational plans. Align Divisional
plans with Departmental strategy, MTSF, MTEF, HR, ICT and SDIP
requirements. Oversee quarterly and annual performance reporting to
Parliament. Stakeholder Management: Establish and maintain partnerships
with NEDLAC, business, labour, government departments, IPAs, and
international bodies. Manage stakeholder relations, media communications
and ensure Batho Pele principles in service delivery. Coordinate capacity
building and information-sharing with regional and international partners.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting: Monitor performance of Division against
strategic and operational plans. Manage integrated performance reporting,
dashboards and compliance with reporting frameworks. Oversee corrective
measures, divisional reviews and continuous improvement systems.
Operational Management: Manage divisional planning, organising, leadership
and control of resources. Oversee representation in OPSCOM, Risk
Management, EE, Skills Development and OHS Committees. Manage labour
relations, performance agreements, scarce skills initiatives and service
delivery. Strategic and Operational Support: Provide support to the DDG and
Chief Directors on strategic, operational, legal, financial and policy issues.
69
Prepare briefing papers, respond to Parliamentary questions, and contribute to
Cabinet memoranda. Manage contracts, tenders, audit findings and
compliance with Auditor-General requirements. Facilitation of Agencies:
Coordinate oversight of agencies reporting to the Branch. Oversee leadership
appointments, SLA implementation, budgeting and transfers to agencies.
Evaluate performance reports of agencies and advise on interventions. Chief
Directorate Management: Manage financial and human resources of the Chief
Directorate. Oversee strategic, operational and risk management processes.
Ensure compliance with governance, audit and reporting requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
POST 40/75 : DIRECTOR: EXPORT PROMOTION (AMERICAS) REF NO: EDP&OI - 083
Overview: To oversee and coordinate export promotion and marketing
initiatives and programmes in order to grow and diversify South Africa’s exports
in the Americas region.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in a Business
Management, Economics, Marketing or related field. 5 years’ relevant
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in an Export Promotion
environment. Key Requirements: Strong experience in trade and export
promotion programs, preferably in the Americas region. Understanding of
international trade policy, marketing strategies, and project execution.
Understanding of public service legislative and regulatory frameworks.
Proficiency in managing export marketing campaigns, inward/outward
missions, and export forums. Strong analytical, research, and report writing
abilities to support market intelligence and strategy. Ability to engage
stakeholders across government, diplomatic missions, and the private sector.
Experience in project and financial management, including planning and
monitoring. Excellent communication, interpersonal, and leadership skills.
Proficiency in computer applications, including Microsoft Office, digital
communication platforms, and Trade Statistics Platforms.
DUTIES : Strategic Management and Policy Implementation: Develop and implement
regional export promotion strategies aligned with trade policy priorities.
Manage the resolution of export barriers through strategic engagement with
exporters, local and international technical experts, and related Departments /
Institutions. Monitor and evaluate strategic plans and provide quarterly and
annual reports. Knowledge Management and Market Intelligence: Manage the
development of databases, repositories, and market intelligence products.
Coordinate the provision of sector-specific export data to stakeholders.
Develop and update briefing materials and country/sector export potential
opportunities. Innovation in Export Promotion: Design and manage innovative
niche export promotion initiatives. Develop regional content and exporter-
aftercare programmes. Evaluate new promotional strategies and refine
implementation models. Project Management: Implement export promotion
projects, including outward selling and inward buying missions. Coordinate
company participation in national pavilions and strategic business forums.
Support company recruitment for export readiness and branding campaigns.
Stakeholder Management: Coordinate participation of export partners,
including provinces, metros, and export councils. Engage with foreign
economic offices, consulates, embassies, and international agencies.
Collaborate with the Export Development and Promotion Forum and COTIIs to
identify exporters. Directorate Management: Manage the Directorate’s human
and financial resources, strategy, and operational plans. Ensure alignment of
projects with national objectives and maintain strong performance systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
POST 40/76 : DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: CCRB - 063
Overview: To identify, develop and review strategies and policies related to
regulatory entity oversight and management, and to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the entities.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
70
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration,
Business Administration and / or Economics or related field. 5 years’ relevant
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in both private and public sector
in agency management. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in
regulatory entity oversight, governance, and compliance with PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of planning frameworks (Strategic Plans,
APPs) and DPME guidelines. Proven ability to conduct research, analyse
reports, and provide evidence-based policy advice. Strong skills in monitoring
and evaluation of institutional performance. Experience in managing
shareholder compacts, performance agreements, and institutional budgets.
Excellent stakeholder management, communication and presentation skills.
Competence in people management, financial management, planning, and
problem-solving. Strong report writing, policy analysis, and analytical thinking
skills.
DUTIES : Entity Planning and Policy Development: Coordinate development of Strategic
Plans and Annual Performance Plans of regulatory entities. Assess compliance
with government planning guidelines and frameworks. Provide feedback and
develop appropriate policies and frameworks for oversight. Oversight and
Monitoring: Monitor and evaluate the performance of regulatory entities.
Analyse reports to support evidence-based decision-making. Recommend
changes and interventions based on performance trends. Institutional
Management: Develop systems, procedures and guidelines for effective entity
management. Oversee budgets, business plans, shareholder compacts, and
performance agreements. Monitor expenditure and compliance with PFMA.
Coordinate responses to Parliamentary Questions and liaise with DG’s office.
Stakeholder Management: Coordinate regulatory cluster meetings and prepare
inputs. Communicate strategic and policy issues to entities. Identify, develop
and implement projects with stakeholders. Directorate Management: Manage
financial and human resources of the directorate. Oversee strategic planning
and execution of operational plans. Ensure risk and compliance reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
OTHER POST
POST 40/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY
BUILDING AND INSTITUTIONAL COORDINATION REF NO: SID&ET - 049
Overview: To implement regional industrial development policies and projects
using the Industrial Parks Revitalisation Programme and integrate Township
and Rural Development economies, in line with Regional Industrial
Development & Clusters.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics /
Development Planning Studies or relevant qualifications. 3–5 years’ relevant
managerial experience in regional or local economic development in both the
private and public sectors. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in
capacity building programmes, institutional development, and stakeholder
coordination within the public sector, municipalities, or development agencies.
Proven experience in policy implementation, programme/project management,
and intergovernmental relations. Sound understanding of Local Economic
Development (LED) frameworks, policies, and strategies in South Africa.
Knowledge of cooperative governance and intergovernmental relations (IGR),
particularly as it relates to municipalities and local economic growth. Familiarity
with capacity building methodologies, institutional strengthening approaches,
and performance monitoring systems. Understanding of government planning
cycles (IDPs, PGDS, NDP alignment) and financial management principles
(PFMA, MFMA). Strong project and programme management skills (planning,
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation). Excellent stakeholder
engagement, communication, and negotiation skills. Strategic thinking and
policy analysis skills. Report writing, presentation, and facilitation skills.
Financial and human resource management skills. Ability to use research,
data, and evidence to inform decision-making.
DUTIES : Industrial Parks Revitalization - Project Management: Identify key regional
industrial clusters and value chains that can unlock economic potential.
Manage and coordinate regional industrial development projects and
71
strategies for industrial parks, townships, and rural communities. Ring- fence
clusters and develop implementation frameworks for identified regional
projects. Manage project milestones and targets in line with the annual
performance plan. Industrial Parks Revitalization Programme (IPRP) Support:
Manage the implementation of IPRP for industrial parks, townships, and the
rural economy. Ensure effective communication of IPRP across all
stakeholders. Manage the institutionalization of IPRP management and
operations with all provinces and agencies. Advise beneficiaries and
stakeholders on broader regional industrial development programs and
strategies. Stakeholder Management: Identify and analyze key stakeholders in
regions. Promote regional industrial development and cluster growth. Facilitate
and build strategic partnerships to implement industrial park projects.
Communicate project status to stakeholders and follow up on information
requests. Improve internal work processes to enhance customer service.
Compile reports on strategic operational areas for relevant stakeholders. Policy
Implementation: Contribute to the development and monitoring of the National
Industrial Parks Policy. Conduct workshops and gather stakeholder input to
guide supported state-owned industrial parks, aligning with department
strategies and policies. Provide input to promote inclusive economic
participation and transformation in townships and rural communities. Compile
quarterly insights on policy implementation and engage with international
stakeholders such as UNIDO, GIZ, SECO, and WB. 4. 4.5 Contribute to policy
development internally. Monitoring and Evaluation: Track project alignment and
performance against the strategic outcomes of sub-directorate programs.
Benchmark and improve processes to ensure efficiency and effectiveness, and
suggest corrective actions. Provide input for annual reviews regarding the
impact of Industrial Parks Revitalization on regional development and cluster
initiatives, and prepare reports. Produce quarterly reports on the performance
of regional industrial development and cluster initiatives for IPs, townships, and
rural interventions. Sub- directorate Management: Manage the collection of
inputs for quarterly and annual reports, business plans, and targets. Oversee
financial resources and assets of the unit. Manage human resources within the
sub- directorate. Oversee reporting on financial and operational risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela 012 394 1809
72
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.’’
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/78 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: MZIMVUBU-TSITSIKAMMA CATCHMENT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY REF NO: MTCMA05
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who had previously applied, need to re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant B-Degree NQF level 7 (Accounting, Financial Management or other
relevant qualification). A post-graduate qualification and/or designation with
relevant professional bodies will be an added advantage. A minimum of 10
years’ experience in financial management of which 5 years must be at
middle/senior managerial level. Extensive knowledge of financial
management, PFMA and Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP)
and some knowledge of local government sector, public service act and
regulations. Behavioural Competencies required: Strategic Capability and
Leadership Programme and Project Management. Attention to detail. Financial
Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management. Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem solving and Analysis. People Management
and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Good
Communication. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Strategic oversight on financial management within CMA: Assume overall
responsibility for general financial and management accounting activities,
budget (preparation and compliance), revenue collection, supply chain
management and asset management functions, payroll, and banking, ensuring
compliance to relevant legislation, prescripts, policies and agreements.
Establish, implement and enhance accounting and internal control systems,
policies and procedures in compliance with GRAP, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and other legislation. Develop and implement a cost management
73
strategy through effective accounting controls and financial management
techniques. Ensure compliance with policies and provide guidance, assess
risks and financial viability of existing & new Policies, Projects and all customer
agreements. Direct the financial strategy of the organisation to ensure
availability of adequate financial resources. Provide strategic financial advice
to executive management and the Board. Ensure timely and accurate financial
reporting to all internal and external governance structures. Set perimeters for
cash flow management and operations of the finance personnel. Ensure
financial data integrity in terms of timeliness, accuracy and reliability. Oversee
and provide assistance during the annual audit; respond to audit findings and
implement recommendations as required. Stay abreast of new trends in the
field of accounting, financial management, budgeting etc. Provide strategic
direction in the provision of other Corporate Support Services within the CMA:
Provide strategic direction in the implementation of HR policies, prescripts and
strategies. Ensure provision of IT services and that associated risks are
effectively mitigated. Ensure provision of office support services including
facilities management. Departmental/Staff Management: Establish appropriate
service and staffing levels; monitor and evaluate the efficiency and
effectiveness of service delivery methods and procedures and allocate
resources accordingly to meet departmental strategies priorities. Responsible
for the related sections of the APP, Shareholders Compact, and Annual Report.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/79 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 141125/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
Cd: Provincial Operations: KwaZulu-Natal
Div: Water Services Planning Support
SALARY : R1 266 450 - R1 446 921 per annum, (all- inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng/BSc Eng) or relevant qualification. Six (6) years
post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Extensive experience in water and sanitation
services planning and implementation, including feasibility studies, designs,
associated legislative requirements, site supervision and project close-out.
Knowledge of programme, project and financial management and ability to
effectively liaise with a wide range of sector role players. Knowledge of the
water sector and relevant legislation (including but not limited to The Water
Services Act (No. 108 of 1997), National Water Act (Act No. 36 of 1998) and
National Environmental Management Act (Act 107 of 1998) amongst others.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications
including relevant computer software knowledge. Technical report writing,
networking, and professional judgement. Problem solving and analysis,
decision making, team leadership, creativity, self-management, stakeholder
focus and responsiveness. Sound interpersonal and leadership skills.
Planning, organising and people management. Excellent communication skills
(written and verbal). Strategic capability and leadership. Must be available to
travel as and when required often at short notice.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
Technologists, Technicians and associates in field, workshop and technical
office activities. Provide support in the analysis and project management of
water and sanitation services projects. Provide technical support to the water
and sanitation sector. Strategic Analysis of Water Services themes and topics.
Development of related business perspectives with recommendations. Liaison
and engagements with all stakeholders and water and sanitation sector players
with regards to project planning and implementation. Provide support to WSAs
to ensure implementation of Planning and implementation Frameworks and
methodologies. Monitoring and reporting on the adherence to these planning
and implementation frameworks and methodologies. Identification,
prioritization and initiation of projects through and the associated financial
management to structure the required budgets for planning and
implementation. Co-ordination of planning to ensure integrated planning and
74
management of water and sanitation projects in all spheres of government
(Water Boards, WSAs and other WSPs) to improve water and sanitation
services, and the reliability and sustainably of infrastructure. Investigation,
assessment, monitoring and reporting on all aspects of Water and Sanitation
Services delivery. Ensure all data, information, reports and results of analysis
are packaged and made accessible to the sector via the Water Services
Knowledge System and National Integrated Water Information System. Liaison
with, and maintenance of data sharing and information partnerships with key
Water and Sanitation Services, Sector role-players and stakeholder such as
Statistics South Africa, National Treasury, Cooperative Governance and Office
of the Presidency. Ensure quality assurance of technical designs with
specifications and authorise/make recommendations for the approval by the
relevant authority. Monitor and ensure projects are implemented in accordance
with prescribed norms and standards. Monitoring and evaluation of water and
sanitation services delivery projects. The provision of guidance to the water
sector regarding technical and engineering aspects of the operations and
maintenance of water and sanitation services infrastructure. Support and
provide guidance on All Town Reconciliation Studies, implementation of
WCWDM, Bulk Water and Sanitation Master Planning and Disaster
Management. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/Literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Msane Tel No: (031) 336 2860
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range,
however, a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered
based in relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as
amended, i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
POST 40/80 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 141125/02 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Dir: Dam Safety Surveillance
SALARY : R879 342 - R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer
will be based on years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil Engineering Degree (B Eng / BSc Eng). Three (3) years post
qualification experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s licence. Experience in dam engineering specifically in
aspects of dam safety evaluation, monitoring and rehabilitation will be an
added advantage. Experience in asset lifecycle management of water
resources infrastructure is highly recommended. Knowledge and experience in
project and contracts management. Understanding of procurement processes
in the Public Sector. Sound financial planning and management. Ability to
communicate, conflict management, contract dispute resolution and
negotiation skills will be an added advantage. Computer literacy and the ability
to use most common MS Office programs is highly recommended. Ability to
work with structural, drafting and hydrological analysis software such as MSc
Marc, Prokon, AutoCAD Civil 3d, ArcGIS and HecGeoRas will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Conduct 5 yearly dam safety evaluations, implement advanced dams
monitoring systems such as AVM, and Trivec using the latest equipment
available in the market, conduct research on new methodologies for behaviour
monitoring of dams, validate observed data using finite elements modelling,
and implementation of rehabilitation projects in line with Chapter 12 of the
National Water Act of 1998 as well as Government Notice R139 of February
2012. Manage small to medium size projects and oversee all aspects of project
implementation in accordance with the applicable standard contracts such as
SAICE GCC 2015, FIDIC and NEC Suits of contracts. Manage the technical,
environmental, contractual, risk, social and financial aspects of dams’
rehabilitation projects. Ensure compliance with technical standards, legal
requirements, during the implementation of projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mwandla Tel No: (012) 336 8736
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
75
POST 40/81 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: 141125/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
Cd: Provincial Operations: Northern Cape
Sd: Water Service Planning Support
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post qualification in
technical Engineering experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of technical design and
analysis of hydrological infrastructure and/or water resource infrastructure.
Knowledge of hydrological data management. Understanding of research and
development. Knowledge and experience in Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance and Project management.
Technical report writing. Good communication skills both (verbal and written),
conflict management and negotiation skills. Problem solving and analysis,
decision making, teamwork, creativity, financial management, people
management, customer focus, responsiveness, planning and organizing. Must
be prepared to work away from the office and travel extensively for extended
periods of time.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
Technologist and associates in the field, workshop, and technical hydrological
activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings, and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality control of
hydrological time series data. Manage the registration of hydrological data on
Hydstra. Manage the maintenance of surface water gauging sites. Ensure
performance of control surveys, stream flow gauging and calibration. Monitor
Real time data of gauging sites, perform site evaluations and monitor
instrumentation. Manage administrative, human resource and related
functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process, operational plan,
procurement plan and related matters. Compile and submit reports as required.
Attend to Risk and Disaster Management matters. Research and development
through continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Provide mentorship and supervision of
personnel. Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to
improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Kgarane Tel No: (053) 830 8800
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/82 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (CIVIL) REF NO: 141125/04
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operation
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Carpentry/Plumbing. Ten (10) years
post qualification experience required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Supervisory planning and
analytical skills. Project management and technical report writing skills.
Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act and maintenance
management systems. Knowledge of PMDS and PFMA. Ability to work
independently as well as in a team. Computer literacy in word and excel. Good
communication skills and interpersonal skills. Technical analysis and problem-
solving skills. Planning, organizing and execution of projects. Willingness to
travel. Ability to work long hours and perform well under pressure.
DUTIES : Maintain and advance expertise: The maintenance of houses, offices, pump
stations and buildings. Be able to interpret civil drawing and set out of works
according to drawings. To be able to do all finishing work inside and outside of
buildings. Be able to fix, repair and build. To construct, erect, install, finish and
repair wooden, metal structures and fixtures used on the inside and outside of
buildings, both for residential and commercial constructions. Ensure
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act and PFMA. Manage
76
technical services, provide input into existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Manage administration and related
functions. Provide input into budgeting process, compile and submit reports as
required. Financial management: Control and monitor expenditure according
to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management. People management:
Leave management, Manage the development, motivation and utilization of
human resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for
continued success of technical services according to organizational needs and
requirements. Manage and supervise artisans and related personnel. Control
and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow
management. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and
monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to
achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N J R D Vermaak Tel No: (017) 846 6110
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/83 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 141125/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Central Operations
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in Administration, Public Administration or Public
Management. Three (3) to (5) five years’ experience in Administration. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of the following:
policy development and implementation, administration processes,
occupational health and safety (OHS), transport policy and records
management procedure in the public services. Understanding of MISS Act, and
other Government legislation. Disciplinary knowledge of human resource
management information, financial management and knowledge of PFMA.
Knowledge of techniques procedures for the planning and execution of
operations, programme and project management. Problem solving and
analysis. Knowledge of relationships, people and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct. Knowledge of analytical
procedure.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support functions in the Directorate: Operations Central.
Manage transport functions in Cluster, including fleet contract management,
subsidized vehicle management, and travel management. Assist with
development, implementation and monitoring of Transport Management policy.
Manage facilities inclusive of physical security and access control, ensure that
Health and safety plans are in place, managing building lease agreements,
management of accommodation requests and contract management of key
accounts. Assist with development and implementing Housing policy. Provision
of records management in Cluster by ensuring the effective and efficient
registry duties, ensuring incoming and outgoing mail is dealt with efficiently,
ensuring that the Departmental filing system is maintained. Provision of office
services in cluster by ensuring that reception and switchboard services are
provided, ensure security service are provided, ensure procurement of goods
and services, ensure cellphone administration is done. Supervision of staff and
overseeing the work of subordinates, training and development, disciplinary
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GT Dilima Tel No: (012) 741 7344
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to perform practical test.
POST 40/84 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT) REF
NO: 141125/06
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operation
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Usutu Vaal Area Office (Standerton)
77
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or bachelor’s degree in financial management Three (3) to
(5) five years’ experience in financial management (accounts payables, salary
administration, and (general ledger). The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s licence will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and
understanding of financial legislation, policies, practices and procedures.
Knowledge and understanding of financial prescripts and systems such as
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PERSAL, Basic Accounting System (SAP),
Logis and Data Analysis. Knowledge and experience in administrative clerical
procedures and systems. Understanding of departmental policies and
procedures. Framework for managing performance information. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide financial administration of entity maintenance on SAP. Manage
collection of revenue Area Office. handle audit queries. Handle payment in
suspension account and follow up on bad debt. Handle enquiries on different
financial matters. Management of accounts, Consolidate, capturing and
balancing budget for the scheme, salary administration and payroll. Analyse
budget expenditure, manage & monitor O & M and CAPEX CAPITAL projects
budget, Consolidate and analyse accounting reports, provide expenditure
reports on monthly and weekly and provide budget to management and cost
centre manager, ensure effective payroll management within the area office,
check finance compliance for SCM documents before creation of purchase
orders, ensure the safekeeping of all financial records and face value
documents by maintaining an effective and efficient filling system, Ensure
clearing ledger account. Ensure reconciliation of the Area Office. Ensure
effective payroll management within the Area Office. Check, verify and certify
as correct and compliant to all finance related transactions. Ensure clearing of
ledger and suspense accounts. Ensure that all audit requests are dealt with
and responded to timeously. Ensure the safekeeping of all financial records
and face-value documents by maintaining an effective and efficient filling
system. Assisting the Assistant Director in populating credible and reliable input
into monthly and Check, analysing and capturing original budget, adjustment
budget. Compile Apply management accounting techniques to analyse, project
and report on expenses. Verify and capture journals on SAP. Assist in drawing
SAP reports (Expenditure Control Commitments and detail reports) as and
when required. Produce daily budget and expenditure monitoring report
including infrastructure programs/ grants for the entire area office. Performing
budget management (e.g. Budget management instrument) analysis.
Performing desktop departmental expenditure trends analysis, monitoring of
departmental expenditure to ensure alignment with approved budget and
planned expenditure/ drawings/ cash flow projections. Detect and correct
incorrect accounting entries (Expenditure misallocations and
misclassifications). Ensure that all audit requests are dealt with and responded
to timeously. Ensure the safekeeping of all financial records by maintaining an
effective and efficient filling system. Supervising and managing the
performance of employees in accordance with the departmental policies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Buthelezi Tel No: (017) 712 9400
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/85 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 141125/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Vaal Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Social Sciences / Public Administration /
Public Management. Three (3) to (5) Five years’ relevant experience in
administration matters: (Human Resource Development, Training, Transport,
Budget Management and Registry). Computer Literacy. A PERSAL introduction
and PERSAL administration certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and experience
in HR processes and legislation. Knowledge of dispute resolution process.
Understanding of labour relations policies and law. Basic financial
management, knowledge of PFMA and knowledge management skills.
Problem solving skills and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
78
orientated and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Render high level administrative services to the Area office. Provide financial
administration and procurement of goods and services. Manage and
coordinate all HR functions within area office. Coordinate and manage HR
Transactions. Coordinated the Recruitment and selections process. Manage
HR and Administration personnel within the Area office. Manage and
administer PMDS and training coordination. Render HR advisory services
within the office. Ensure compliance with HR policies. Prepare monthly reports.
Administration of Cell phones and Land lines accounts. Coordinate HR
workshops to employees. Render proper records management for the office.
Manage, supervise and develop staff within Corporate Services. Manage and
administer Corporate Services functions within the Area office. Manage and
administer transport and travel in line with departmental policies. Manage and
administer corporate services budget and give budget inputs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. CM Mokone Tel No: (016) 880 0900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidate will be expected to do practical test during interview.
POST 40/86 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A – C REF NO:
141125/08
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post qualification
Engineering Technician experience required. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Compulsory registration with (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineering Technician. Knowledge of programme and project
management. Knowledge of technical design in dams and canals. Significant
dam engineering experience related to design, construction, management,
operation, maintenance, and safety of dams with a safety risk. Knowledge of
the water sector and relevant legislation (including but not limited to the
Chapter 4 and Chapter 12 of National Water Act (NWA, Act No. 36 of 1998)
and the Dam Safety Regulations published in Government Notice R. 139 of 24
February 2012). Understanding of research and development. Knowledge of
computer-aided engineering applications including relevant computer
software. Technical report writing, networking, and professional judgement.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, team leadership, creativity,
self-management, customer focus and responsiveness. Sound interpersonal
and leadership skills. Strong verbal and written communication skills. Planning,
organizing and people management. Willingness to travel throughout South
Africa for the execution of some duties.
DUTIES : Render technical services and support. Provide inputs in engineering
drawings, research, design, manufacturing, operations and maintenance to the
Area Offices and Scheme Offices. Assist Control Engineering Technicians and
associates in the field, workshop and technical office activities and appraisals
for technical reports, Business and Demand Plans. Monitor the implementation
of Government Water Resource Schemes projects through conducting site
inspections, site meetings, compilation, and submission of progress reports.
Development of Condition Assessment and Civil Maintenance Inspections.
Address breakdowns and perform fault findings. Optimize the life cycle of
equipment. Initiate maintenance / refurbishment projects. Technical support for
Dam Safety Rehabilitation Projects. Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Evaluate technical
designs and engineering drawings with specifications complete with bill of
quantities and submit for approval by the relevant authority. Perform
administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process
as required. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly expenditure reports as
required. Evaluation of quotations and proposals together with verifying and
certifying invoices for payment from contractors and Public Service Providers.
Execute cost analysis and feasibility studies for new and refurbished
equipment. Maintain proper records and documentation for all projects to
79
enable a clean audit. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical /
engineering operational plan. Develop, implement, and maintain databases.
Supervise technical personnel and control strategic infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Segalo Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/87 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (CIVIL) REF NO: 141125/09
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bloemhof Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five (5) years post qualification
experience required as an Artisan. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge of legal compliance. Computer-aided applications. Team
leadership. Production, process knowledge and skills. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Knowledg of project management. Planning,
organizing and execution. Technical report writing. Problem solving and
analysis, decision making, team leadership, creativity, self-management,
customer focus and responsiveness. Sound interpersonal and leadership
skills. Strong verbal and written communication skills. Financial and people
management. Willingness to travel throughout South Africa for the execution
of some duties.
DUTIES : Supervise technical design and production of civil technical services. Supervise
and produce design according to specifications and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Supervise the maintenance of civil
technical services. Repair civil structures and facilities according to standards.
Repair civil structure and facilities against specifications. Service civil
structures and facilities according to schedule. Perform administrative and
related functions. Update register on maintained and repaired faults. Compile
and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to the civil maintenance plan.
Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements, and regulations. Human
Capital resource management. Supervise and mentor staff. Plan resources
available and schedule maintenance work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS van der Westhuizen Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/88 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 141125/10
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Upper Vaal (Vaal dam)
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Public Administration / Public Management /
Finance. One (1) to (3) three years’ relevant experience in finance. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge and understanding
of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of SAP system and PERSAL
introduction. Ability to interpret policies, circulars and financial legislation.
People and diversity management skills. Good communication skills both
(verbal and written). Understanding reporting skills and dispute resolution.
Ability to work independently, prioritize duties and to meet deadlines. Client
orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide financial administrative support to all personnel at the component
Supervise Finance. Ensure Implementation and compliance with PFMA,
Departmental policies and Procurement policies in the area office. Handle audit
queries. Ensure correct inventories and purchase of goods, check invoices to
be paid, Release payments captured on SAP. Assist with execution of financial
administration Check receipts and money received for banking, check petty
cash as well as its replenishment, Check and post money from bank, Post
journals captured on SAP. Report any unacceptable expenditures, ensure
outstanding payments are followed up. Provide procurement services to the
component and maintain register of the component Ensure recovery of housing
rentals, private telephone calls, water and electricity accounts and approve
deductions captured on PERSAL. Manage Performance Agreements, quarterly
80
reviews and annual assessment of subordinates. Ensure proper management
of all types of absence leaves in the section. Prepare submissions for
component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. CM Mokone Tel No: (016) 880 0900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidate will be expected to do practical test during interview.
POST 40/89 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: 141125/11
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Usutu Vaal Area Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 or relevant qualification. Three (3) to (5) five years’
experience in Human Resource Management. The disclosure of a Valid
unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. Introduction to
PERSAL Certificate. Computer literacy, Knowledge and understanding of
human resources, as well as ability to capture data, operate computer and
collect administration statistics. Knowledge and insight of human resources
prescripts. Knowledge of registry duties and understanding the work in registry
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
public service. Must have good interpersonal relations skills, customer care
and supervisory skills. Be able to work independently and in a team. Basic
knowledge of problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of Human resource administration practices, HRA, HRD, Registry, Recruitment
and selection. Handle Human resource administration enquiries HRA, HRD,
registry, recruitment and selection. Supervisor human resources staff. Manage
and Administer personnel management and administration function within the
Area Office. Manage and Administer Human Resources function and office
support services. Manage and Administer HRD, training coordination of PMDS.
Manage and administer leave management. Manage and Administer service
conditions. Recruitment, Selection and Appointment. Provide HR and policy
advisory service to all employees within the area office. Ensure that all reports
are submitted within the financial year closure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IN Ndwandwe Tel No: (017) 712 9400
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/90 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: 141125/12
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Central Operations
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. An NQF Level 6
qualification in Supply Chain Management / Finance will serve as an added
advantage. Three (3) to (5) five years’ experience in Asset Management. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. Computer literacy (MS Office). Knowledge of SAP system. Problem
solving, analysis, client orientation, customer focus, accountability and ethical
conduct skills. Good communication skills verbal and written. Willingness to
travel and ability to work under pressure. Basic Knowledge of work procedures
in terms of working environment. Basic Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework.
DUTIES : Supervise and render asset management clerical duties by doing the following:
Ensure all movable assets are procured in line with PFMA (Public Finance
Management Act) and Supply Chain Management (SCM) procedures. Capture
new assets in the Asset Register immediately after acquisition. Assign unique
asset numbers/tags barcodes and serial numbers to enable traceability.
Conduct annual physical verification of all movable assets for all Central
Operations Area Offices. Reconcile physical counts with the Asset Register.
Investigate discrepancies missing, damaged, or unrecorded assets. Assign
custodianship of assets to responsible officials, asset custodians must sign
81
accountability forms. Record any movement, transfer, or relocation of assets
between offices/ workshops. Maintain updated records on asset location and
custodian. Issue transfer/relocation forms with proper approvals and update
the Asset Register. Ensure that officials report theft, loss, or damage to
movable assets. Maintain a Loss Control Register in line with Departmental
loss control policy and Treasury regulations. Submit cases to security vetting
section for recommendation for write-off, recovery, or disciplinary action.
Identify redundant, obsolete, or unserviceable assets for collection to the
disposal stores. Follow approved disposal methods auction, transfer to other
departments, donations and recycling.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Khumalo Tel No: (012) 741 7361
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The shortlisted candidates will be required to do practical test.
POST 40/91 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 141125/13
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 or relevant qualification. Three (3) to (5) Five years working
experience. Understanding of reports writing. Knowledge and insight of Human
Resources Management prescripts. Knowledge of financial systems such as
SAP. Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis. Good Communication
skills both (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Supervise and render general clerical support services. Supervise and provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component.
Supervise Staff. Fleet management. Manage the utilisation and control fleet
vehicles as well as hiring of short-term vehicles. Issuing and checking vehicles
pre and post inspections. Compile monthly usage and expenditure reports for
the cluster. Compile logbooks for pool vehicles, account as proxy for the
departmental vehicles. Administer accidents and investigations. Manage
vehicles for maintenance and repairs. Ensure that vehicles are subsidised.
Assist officials during the applications, check and screen all applications to
ensure compliance as per prescribed policy. Serve as secretary for the
subsidised motor vehicle advisory committee. Corporate travel. Receive and
process travel requests for flights, accommodations and car hire. Compile
reconciliation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mncwabe Tel No: (033) 239 1900/1279
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 40/92 : REGISTRY CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 141125/14
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or relevant qualification. A National Diploma in
Records Management / Archives / Human Resources Management /
Administration / Public Management will serve as an added advantage. Three
(3) to (5) five years registry experience will serve as an added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of human
resources functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computers and collate administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of
Human Resources prescripts. Basic knowledge of financial operating systems
(PERSAL). Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of working environment. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide counter services. Handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Render an effective filling and record management services. Operate office
machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents for archiving
and disposal.
82
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mncwabe Tel No: (033) 239 1900/1301
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 40/93 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C (FITTER AND TURNER) REF NO:
141125/15
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R243 597 - R408 048 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Jericho Usutu River
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Fitter and Turner). The disclosure of a
valid unexpired driver’s license. Ability to work in a team. Experience of
production process and skills. Technical analysis knowledge. Computer-aided
technical applications word and excel. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Knowledge of occupational health and safety Act. Technical report writing.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills,
creativity and Self-management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Computer skills. Planning and
organizing.
DUTIES : Render maintenance for mechanical orientated functions: Maintenance of bulk
raw water infrastructure (dams, reservoirs, pump stations and pipelines) and
machinery. Inspect equipment for technical faults and repair according to
standards. Service equipment according to schedule. Ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Perform administrative and related
functions for the component. Ensure that tools are properly used and managed.
Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements, and regulations.
Implement planned maintenance and update maintenance logbooks. Compile
and submit reports as required. Supervise and mentor staff. Continuous
individual development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Willingness to travel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.N Danisa Tel No: (017) 846 6000/ 6058
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/94 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C (CIVIL) REF NO: 141125/16
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operation
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R243 597 - R408 048 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam (Usutu River)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Painting). The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Problem solving and analytical skills. Planning,
organizing and execution of works. Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act and maintenance management systems. Knowledge of PMDS and
PFMA. Ability to work independently as well as in a team. Computer literacy in
word and excel. Good communication skills and interpersonal skills. To ensure
that tools and materials are properly used and managed. To supervise and
mentor staff Ability. To work long hours and perform well under pressure.
Technical analysis and problem-solving skills. Planning, organizing and
execution of projects. Able to do technical reports if asked to do so. Willingness
to travel.
DUTIES : The rendering of design and production of technical services, maintenance of
houses, offices, pump stations and buildings. The rendering of technical
services and maintenance of buildings. Be able to interpret civil drawings and
set out works according to drawings. To be able to do all finishing work inside
and outside of buildings and be able to fix, repair and build. Must be
professional who helps prepare surfaces, mix paints for different needs and
apply them with brushes or rollers to fill in cracks or apply colour on walls and
other objects around a building, such as furniture pieces or doors. Ensure
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act and PFMA. To perform
administrative and related functions by ensuring that all tools and equipment
are maintained and are in good working condition. Ensure tools are serviced
as per schedule and compile monthly reports. Ensure that all civil maintenance
is attended to. Ensure the production/ service are good quality. Ensure the civil
83
projects undertaken meet the required standards set by the department.
Execute building construction projects and repair assigned by supervisor as
per specifications. Manage the development, motivation and utilization of
human resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for
continued success of technical services according to organizational needs and
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N J R D Vermaak Tel No: (017) 846 6110
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/95 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C (CIVIL) REF NO: 141125/17
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operation
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R243 597 - R408 048 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Carpentry). The disclosure of valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act
and maintenance management systems. Knowledge of PMDS and PFMA.
Ability to work independently as well as in a team. Computer literacy in word
and excel. Good communication skills (written and verbal) and interpersonal
skills. Problem solving and analytical skills. Planning, organizing and execution
of works. Technical analysis and problem-solving skills. Planning, organizing
and execution of projects. Ability to do technical reports if asked to do so.
Willingness to travel, work long hours and perform well under pressure.
DUTIES : The rendering of design and production of technical services by the
maintenance of houses, offices, pump stations and buildings. Be able to
interpret civil drawing and set out of works according to drawings. To be able
to do all finishing work inside and outside of buildings, be able to fix, repair and
build to construct, erect, install, finish and repair wooden and metal structures
and fixtures used on the inside and outside of buildings for both for residential
and commercial constructions. Ensure that tools and materials are properly
used and managed. Ensure compliance with Occupational Health and Safety
Act and PFMA. Perform administrative and related functions by ensuring that
all tools and equipment are maintained and are in good working condition.
Ensure tools are serviced as per schedule and compile monthly reports.
Ensure that all civil maintenance is attended to. Ensure the production/ service
are of good quality. Ensure the civil projects undertaken meet the required
standards set by the department. Execute building construction projects and
repair assigned by supervisor as per specifications. Manage the development,
motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for continued success of technical services
according to organizational needs and requirements. Supervise and mentor
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N J R D Vermaak Tel No: (017) 846 6110
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test
POST 40/96 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION A-C (MECHANICAL) REF NO: 141125/18
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R243 597 - R408 048 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Upper Vaal (Vaal dam)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certification (Fitter and Turner. Two (2) years
working experience after obtaining relevant Trade Test Certificate will serve as
an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Willing to perform production and work overtime when required. Conversant
with the requirements of the OHSACT (Act 85 of 1993). Computer literate.
Problem solving and analysis skills combined with production and process
knowledge.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair mechanical installations and equipment in various dams,
reservoirs, departmental houses, pump stations, machinery, dam walls and
pipelines. Inspect equipment for technical faults and repair according to
standards, service equipment according to schedule. Compile, monitor,
84
evaluate and inspect planned, scheduled, maintenance plans and projects in
terms of specifications, work schedules and standard operating procedure.
Supervise and control over equipment, stock, materials and tools used within
the Area Office. Perform administrative and related functions, divisional work
schedules and complete job cards. Willingness to travel and able to work long
hours, perform standby duties and perform well under pressure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Nkuzana Tel No: (016) 880 0900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidate will be expected to do practical test during interview.
POST 40/97 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT) REF NO:
141125/19
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Usutu Vaal Area Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 with mathematics or accounting as passed subjects.
Appropriate experience in Finance with particular emphasis in the following:
knowledge of SAP, PERSAL, PFMA National Treasury Regulation and Supply
Chain Management- creditors will serve as an added advantage. One (1) to (2)
years’ experience in Finance will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added advantage.
Computer literacy (MS Office). Good verbal and written communication skills.
Good organizational skills. Ability to work under pressure and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Receiving money and issuing receipts, banking of money, issuing petty cash,
and replenish of petty cash, update rent register and allocations of deduction
on PERSAL and capturing of data on PERSAL. Filing of documents, support
finance with salary enquiries and capturing overtime, shift allowances, standby,
Sunday and public holiday for all employees on PERSAL, capture Eskom
accounts on SAP and email payment advice to Eskom.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Muir Tel No: (017) 712 9400
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/98 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (SUPPLY CHAIN MAMANAGEMENT) REF NO:
141125/20
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Usutu Vaal Area Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent One (1) to (2) two years’ experience
in Supply Chain Management (logistics) will serve as an added advantage. The
disclosure of a Valid unexpired driver ‘s license will serve as an added
advantage. Computer literacy (MS word, excel, power point and exchange).
Knowledge of financial operating system (SAP). Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the public services. Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of working environment. Interpersonal relations,
flexibility and teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis.
People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus.
Good communication skills (both verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct.
DUTIES : Render Logistics and inventory management support. Render Demand and
acquisition clerical support. Render logistical support services. Provide
effective administration of purchase orders. Administer the goods receipt
process for goods and services acquired. Receive and verify goods from
suppliers. Capture goods and services receipt vouchers. Check and issue
receivables to responsible components. Stocktaking. Receiving and issuing
stock from the warehouse. Manage 0-9 file, expediting open purchase orders.
Managing and reporting on open purchase orders (commitments). Compile
disclosure of commitment. Perform any other administrative duties as may be
requested by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. BE Radebe Tel No: (017) 712 9400
85
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/99 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (SUPPLY CHAIN MAMANAGEMENT) REF NO:
141125/21
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Grootdraai Dam (Usutu Vaal)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. One (1) to (2) two years’
experience in Supply Chain Management (Acquisition Management) will serve
as an added advantage. The disclosure of a Valid unexpired driver’s license
will serve as an added advantage. Computer literacy (Ms work, excel, power
point and exchange). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (SAP).
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
public services. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of working
environment. Interpersonal relations, flexibility and teamwork. Basic
knowledge of problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills (both verbal
and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition management support. Assist with the
compilation and maintenance of records according to Supply Chain
Management (SCM) prescripts, e.g. procurement batches, Bid documents, etc.
Receive requests for goods and services from end users. Capture specification
on the electronic purchasing system. Request and receive quotations. Place
purchase orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or
logistical support during the bid specification and evaluation sittings. Compile,
draft documents as required. Perform any other administrative duties as may
be requested by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. BE Radebe Tel No: (017) 712 9400
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/100 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (TRANSPORT) REF NO: 141125/22
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam (Usutu River)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. Previous working
experience will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge of
clerical functions, practices as well as ability to capture data, operate and
collate administrative statistics. Basic Knowledge and insight of administrative
procedures and PFMA. Knowledge of financial operating systems PERSAL,
Bas, Logis etc.) Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing public service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of working
environment. interpersonal relations, flexibility and teamwork. Basic knowledge
of problem-solving analysis. People and Diversity Management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills. Accountability of
ethical conduct. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide efficient implementation and compliance with directives, policies and
procedures related to transport management. Processing of new subsidized
vehicle applications. Administer subsidized vehicles applications for
adjudication committee. Conducing subsidized vehicle inspections, utilizations,
Maintenance and administering of related claims. Efficient management and
operational control of fleet and departmental vehicles. Perform authorisations,
operation and optimal traffic fines. Administer transport invoices and provision
of monthly transport reports. Ensure quality assurance of log sheets for
subsidized vehicles. Maintain an efficient filling system. Keeping updated
registers, databases and implementing systems and procedures for the
tracking and tracing of transport documents. Liaise with service providers and
regional office on matters related to transport management. Provide advisory
services to officials and management on transport-related matters. Handling of
86
Accident reports, Administration of transport meetings. Perform driver and
other administration support related duties when there is a need. Quality
assurance of the log sheets for subsidized Vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K E Thomo/Ms N Mazibuku Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/101 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT) REF NO:
141125/23
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam (Usutu River)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. Computer Literacy (Ms.
Word and Excel). One (1) year relevant experience will serve as an added
advantage. Good Knowledge of Basic Financial Operating system (PERSAL,
BAS, Logic, etc. Telephone etiquette, sound knowledge and knowledge and
application of government and administration procedures. client orientation
and customer focus. Good communication skills both verbal and written. Good
interpersonal relationship skills, work in a team and must be able to work under
pressure. Accountability and ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Render Switchboard services. Attending to all incoming and outgoing calls and
transferring them to appropriate officials for further actions. Taking and relaying
messages. Attending to walk in visitors/customers and ensuring that they are
timeously attended to. Direct incoming calls / Enquiries to relevant officials.
Render administrative duties by maintaining switchboard system, register all
incoming mail and oversee delivery therefore Keeping updated database and
implement systems and procedures for tracking and tracing correspondence.
Ensure clean, neat vouchers, booking cancellations, changes and re-
scheduling and constant feedback to officials. Ensure travel submissions for
approval. Maintenance of efficient filling system. Liaise with clients and service
providers with regards to photocopier machines, toners and switchboard
related issues. Provide administrative support to the Area Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K E Thomo/Ms N Mazibuku Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 40/102 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 141125/24
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or relevant qualification. A National Diploma in
Records Management / Archives / Human Resources Management /
Administration / Public Management will serve as an added advantage.
Appropriate experience in registry will serve as added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of human
resources functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computers and collate administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of
Human Resources prescripts. Basic knowledge of financial operating systems
(PERSAL). Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of working environment. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide counter services. Handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Render an effective filling and record management services. Operate office
machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents for archiving
and disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mncwabe Tel No: (033) 239 1900/1301
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
87
POST 40/103 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: 141125/25
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. A National Diploma in
Human Resources Management will serve as the added advantage. PERSAL
Introduction certificate will serve as an added advantage. Appropriate
experience in Human Resource Management and registry will serve as added
advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of
PERSAL system, database and spreadsheet application. Good communication
skills both (verbal and written). Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of
human resource prescripts policies and procedures. Team player.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices, human resource
transaction: (leave management, and human resource records management).
Render professional advice to line function on the effective, efficient
interpretation and implementation of policies and other related prescripts.
Address human resource administration enquires. Compile daily statistics and
update database. Process transfers, movement, and relocation on PERSAL for
Operations Eastern. Provide human resource registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mncwabe Tel No: (033) 239 1900/1301
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from uMgungundlovu District. Note:
Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 40/104 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: 141125/26
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. A National Diploma in
Human Resources Management will serve as the added advantage. PERSAL
Introduction certificate will serve as an added advantage. Appropriate
experience in Human Resource Management and registry will serve as added
advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of
PERSAL system, database and spreadsheet application. Good communication
skills both (verbal and written). Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of
human resource prescripts policies and procedures. Team player.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices, human resource
transaction: (leave management, and human resource records management).
Render professional advice to line function on the effective, efficient
interpretation and implementation of policies and other related prescripts.
Address human resource administration enquires. Compile daily statistics and
update database. Process transfers, movement, and relocation on PERSAL for
Operations Eastern. Provide human resource registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mncwabe Tel No: (033) 239 1900/1301
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from uMgungundlovu District.
POST 40/105 : SECURITY OFFICER SUPERVISOR REF NO: 141125/27 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied need to re-apply)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria Central Operations
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 4 (A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or relevant qualification). Three
(3) years working experience in security environment. Grade B PSIRA
certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of
88
measures for the control movement of equipment in and out of the premises.
Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g., OHS Act, Access Control
Act, MISS, MPSS, Protection of Information Act, and the authority of security
officers under these Documents. Good listening skills and interpersonal skills.
Good verbal and written communication skills and Computer skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by contracted security (PSSP),
ensuring adherence to Department security policies. Administrative and
Related functions, provide security-related support and administer all control
room operations to safeguard the department assets, conducts preliminary
investigation. perform unannounced visits or inspections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MV Phosa Tel No: (012) 741 7355/7378
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to do practical test.
POST 40/106 : SECURITY OFFICER SUPERVISOR REF NO: 141125/28 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 4 (A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or relevant qualification). Three
(3) years working experience in security environment. Grade B PSIRA
certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. Certificate of NKP (National Key Point) will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of
measures for the control movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of
prescribed security procedures (e.g., MISS, MPSS, Protection of Information
Act, and the authority of security officers under these Documents. Good
listening skills and interpersonal skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills and Computer skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions during the commencement of shifts (including)
ensuring compliance with the following Act, Access and Criminal Act 51/1977
and ensuring adherence to Departmental security policies. Administrative and
Related functions, provide security-related support and administer all control
room operations to safeguard the department assets, ensure that all incidents
are recorded and reported to the Chief Security Officer immediately and if
required conduct preliminary investigation into all incidents that will occur
during your shift.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. DM Mhlanga Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to do practical test.
POST 40/107 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: 141125/29
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Roodeplaat Training Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level (4) or (5) (A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification.
Computer literacy. Knowledge of financial management and PFMA will serve
as an added advantage. Organising, interpersonal and good people
management skills. Basic communication skills both (verbal and written). Client
orientation and customer focus. Knowledge of telephone etiquette. Knowledge
in framework for managing operating telecom operations. Problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Receive telephonic calls, messages, and channel to relevant role players.
Welcome, receive and direct clients to relevant units. Provide relevant
information as required. Operate office equipment such as fax machine and
photocopiers. Liaise with internal and external personnel. Maintain telephone
directory. Maintain and control visitor register at reception.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Skosana Tel No: (012) 943 3303
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
89
POST 40/108 : SENIOR FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 141125/30
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Roodeplaat Training Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate and Diploma in Hospitality Management. Two (2)
to (4) four years’ experience in the environment of food industry. SHE Rep
certificate will serve as added advantage. Basic knowledge keeping kitchen
utensils clean and safe. Knowledge in business administration. Knowledge in
food planning and preparation. Disciplinary knowledge in food services
industry. Knowledge of quality management. Knowledge of purchasing and
supply chain management. Knowledge of sanitation and health and safety
procedures. Knowledge in dishing out food. Knowledge in inventory
procedures and techniques.
DUTIES : Plan menus to meet individual nutritional needs. Monitor and oversees the
maintenance of kitchen utensils, ordering and delivering of food items such as
bread, meat dry stores, canned goods and dietary products. Oversees the
inspection of all kitchen and food preparation areas to ensure proper food
handling, sanitation and elimination of safety and security hazards. Plan and
organise special functions. Maintain records of stock levels and financial
transactions. Train and supervise waiters and kitchen staff. Assist with food
preparation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Skosana Tel No: (012) 943 3303
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/109 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 141125/31 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Roodeplaat Training Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level (1) or (2) Certificate or relevant qualification. N6 or Diploma in
Hospitality & Catering Services will serve as an added advantage. Two (2)
years’ experience in food preparation and serving environment will serve as an
added advantage. Three (3) years of experience working as a cleaner will be
an added advantage. Ability to work under pressure. Basic knowledge keeping
kitchen utensils clean and safe. Knowledge of sanitation, health and safety
procedures. Knowledge of hygiene standards. Knowledge of inventory
procedures and techniques. Knowledge of food preparation techniques.
Knowledge in dishing out food. Basic knowledge in quality management.
Willing to work shifts and overtime.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment. Apply hygiene and safety measures.
Maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of garbage
disposal. Prepare food, snacks, beverages (water, tea, coffee, sugar, and cold
drinks). Setup and convey crockery, cutlery and equipment to dining areas.
Serve food and beverages. Responsible for food suppliers and report waste
and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Skosana Tel No: (012) 943 3303
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/110 : GENERAL WORKER (X6 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mooi Rivier Ref No: 141125/32 (X5 Posts)
Rhenoster Rivier Ref No: 141125/33 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET certificate. Knowledge of general worker in handling equipment and
appliances. Knowledge of working on various general work including lawn care
process. Knowledge of the pruning and trimming process and techniques.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Load and off load equipment and any other,
fencing, weed control. Garden maintenance, Painting, spraying with round up.
Maintenance of dam premises, canals, pipelines, servitudes, terrain and
90
buildings. Extinguish veld fires. Adhere to all OHS act. Assist with other general
duties as when requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mooi Rivier: Mr S Ntombela Tel No: (018) 294 9300/9310
Rhenoster Rivier: Mr S Ntombela Tel No: (018) 294 9300/9310
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 40/111 : GENERAL WORKER (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : De Mist Kraal Dam Ref No: 141125/34 (X1 Post)
Gwuwa Dam (Butterworth) Ref No: 141125/35 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge of general work in handling equipment and appliances. Knowledge
of working on various general work including lawn care process. Knowledge of
pruning, trimming process and techniques. Basic knowledge of chemical use
(dilution / mix) chemical product. Basic knowledge of daily maintenance
procedures for efficient machine / equipment performance. Basic knowledge in
supporting water utilisation and water resource strategy. Basic knowledge of
health and safety procedures. Basic understanding of Government legislation.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Load and off load furniture, equipment and any
other goods to relevant destination. Clean government vehicles. Clean relevant
workstations. Cutting of grass and cleaning pavements. Cutting and stockpiling
of trees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Cannon at (063) 500 6215
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 40/112 : GROUNDSMAN (X11 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Pongolapoort Dam Ref No: 141125/36 (X2 Posts)
Hluhluwe Dam Ref No: 141125/37 (X3 Posts)
Goedertrow Dam Ref No: 141125/38 (X3 Posts)
Klipfontein Dam Ref No: 141125/39 (X2 Posts)
Wagendrift Dam Ref No: 141125/40 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Zero - (1) year of work experience. More than two (2) years of experience in
performing manual work will be an added advantage. Knowledge of working
on various general work and handling equipment and appliances. Knowledge
of gardening equipment including lawn care process and competencies are
required (pruning, trimming process and techniques). Knowledge of chemical
use (dilution/mix) and chemical product. Knowledge of daily maintenance
procedures for efficient machine/equipment performance. Basic knowledge in
supporting water utilisation and water resource strategy. Knowledge of health
and safety procedures. Knowledge of garden maintenance and planting
practices. Basic understanding of Government legislation. Good
communication skills and the ability to work in a team. Must be able to work in
or near rivers, dams, and canals, and in confined spaces. Must be able and
willing to assist other schemes and maintenance teams when needed. Must be
punctual, productive, and loyal.
DUTIES : Clean, maintain grounds, repair tools and structures such as buildings, fences,
and benches using hand and power tools. Mix, spray, or spread fertilisers,
herbicides, or insecticides onto grass, shrubs, and trees using hand or
automatic sprayers or spreaders. Provide proper upkeep of sidewalks,
driveways, parking lots, fountains, planters, and other grounds features.
Maintain existing grounds/gardens by caring for sod, plants, and trees. Rake
and mulch leaves and irrigate plants and lawns. Sweep parking lots, walkways,
and grounds; clean buildings by sweeping, washing floors, and cleaning
windows. Perform routine maintenance on equipment, repair minor damages,
and refer major repairs to service providers. Maintain accurate records, such
as job cards and equipment repair logs. Conduct inspections and report
91
defects, such as cracks in structures, holes in embankments, and stagnant
water.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Bhengu Tel No: (033) 239 1900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 40/113 : CLEANER REF NO: 141125/41
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Upper Vaal (Vaal dam)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET certificate. Be able to operate cleaning equipment. Be able to work
in a team and have a good interpersonal relation. Be able to work under-
pressure, be punctual and respect of working hours and customer care.
DUTIES : Clean and create an orderly working environment. Operate cleaning machines.
Ensuring that guest houses, kitchens and boardrooms are neat and tidy.
Prepare tea and other refreshments for meetings. Wash dishes. Load and
offload goods. Assist in any other duties as and when requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Vermaak Tel No: (016) 880 0900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidate will be expected to do practical test during interview.
POST 40/114 : CLEANER REF NO: 141125/42 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
Div: Water Resources Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Basic knowledge in cleaning services. knowledge of chemical use (dilution).
Basic knowledge of cleaning equipment’s used. Basic knowledge of health and
safety requirements. Basic knowledge in record keeping. Understanding and
applying safety rules. understanding of applying and using chemicals correctly.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices corridors, elevators and boardrooms by dusting and waxing
of floors, sweeping, and scrubbing. Vacuuming and shampooing floors.
Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Empty and cleaning of dirt bins. Collect
and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general
kitchens by cleaning of basins, wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils.
Cleaning the restrooms by refiling hand wash liquid soap, replace toilet papers
and empty wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials. Report
broken machines/equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwaves, vacuum
after use. Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Duma Tel No: (033) 239 1900
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from Pietermaritzburg and surroundings
92
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our intention
to promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representavity will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided to forward
application to: Department of Sport, Arts Culture and Recreation, Human
Resource Management Directorate (Recruitment Division), Applications
maybe hand delivered (drop off - application box) Ground Floor, Zana Building,
Corner Hill and Henry Street Bloemfontein OR submit application through email
as a single scanned document/one PDF attachment to the email addresses
specified for each position (kindly note that the emailed application and
attachments should not exceed 5mb) alternatively courier to Zana Building,
corner Hill and Henry Street Bloemfontein, Room 9 (Attention Mr L Moadira)
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on form Z83, which can be downloaded from
www.dpsa.gov.za and must be accompanied by a comprehensive CV only.
Applications submitted on the old application for employment (Z83) will not be
considered. All fields in the Z83 application form must be completed in full
(Separate application for every reference number). Subject matter must reflect
the post reference number on the email. It will be expected from Shortlisted
candidates to present certified copies of qualifications once interview process
is communicated. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications and/or short
courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA
citizens must provide proof of permanent residence permit (if shortlisted). The
onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are couriered or hand
delivered timeously as No applications received after the closing date and as
well as incomplete applications will be considered. Applicants are respectfully
informed that shortlisted candidates are subjected to pre-employment
screening (verification of qualification, security clearance, citizenship, credit
record check and employment verification), to determine suitability for
employment. If no notification of appointment is received within 4 months of the
closing date, applicants must accept that their application was unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical pre-entry assessment
that intends to test relevant technical, generic and integrity elements link to
specific post. The suitable candidates will be selected with intention of
promoting representavity and achieving EE targets as contemplated in the
departmental Employment Equity plan.
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 2025 TO 2027
(24 Months)
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/115 : INTERNSHIP: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: RM/1
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma /Bachelor of Technology in Internal Audit or equivalent and
related qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
93
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/116 : INTERNSHIP: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: IA /2
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / degree in Internal Audit equivalent and related qualification
at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/117 : INTERNSHIP: INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: IF / 3
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Degree /Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering / Building or Architecture
or Quantity Survey or equivalent and related qualification at NQF level 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/118 : INTERNSHIP: INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: HS/4
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTR : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Health and Safety management or equivalent and related
qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
94
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/119 : INTERNSHIP: EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE AND WELLNESS REF NO: EAP/5
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree Human Social Science or equivalent and related qualification
at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/120 : INTERNSHIP: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRM/ 6
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/degree in Human Resource Management or equivalent and
related qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/121 : INTERNSHIP: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: CM /7
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma Media relations/ Communication and Marketing or equivalent
and related qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
95
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
POST 40/122 : INTERNSHIP: GRAPHIC DESIGN REF NO: GD /8
STIPEND : R7860.50 pm
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Graphic Design or equivalent and related qualification at
NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlaleng Modupe at 066 479 1443
APPLICATIONS : recruit.bt@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : General Candidates who will enter public service environment for the first time
are invited to submit application (s) thus candidates should not have any
previously appointment (s) as Intern / contract worker within any Public
Service/ Private Sector Environment (Failure to disclose such information will
lead to disqualification / dismissal) Successful Interns shall enter into a contract
of employment between him/herself and the department for a period of 24
months intended from date of appointment Applicants are urged to submit
application per post as per their field of study and submit separate applications
should they apply for more than one position Successful Interns will be placed
within Units/Components linked to their field of study so that they can be
equipped with practical work experience, be developed in relevant professional
skills, and work ethics to be capacitated towards future employment
opportunities.
96
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, LAND & ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
DARDLEA is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity in DARDLEA through the filling of posts. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
No Payment of any kind is required when applying for these positions.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting relevant reference number should either be hand
delivered, posted or e-mailed to the following addresses:
Head Office: to the Director: Human Resource Management & Development,
Samora Machel Building, Private Bag X11219, Riverside Park, Mbombela,
(1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-ho@mpg.gov.za
Ehlanzeni District Office: to the District Director, Block 4, Aqua Street, PO
Box 266, Riverside Park, Mbombela, (1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-
ehls@mpg.gov.za
Bohlabela District Office: to the District Director, 101 Main Road, Private Bag
X1321, Thulamahashe, (1365) or Email: dardlearecruitment-ehln@mpg.gov.za
GERT Sibande District Office: The District Director, 44 Church Street, Private
Bag X 9071, Ermelo (2350) or Email: dardlearecruitment-gs@mpg.gov.za
Nkangala District Office: to the District Director, Ebhudlweni Building,
Government Complex, Private Bag X4017, KwaMhlanga (1022) or Email:
dardlearecruitment-nka@mpg.gov.za. Please ensure that you email your
application to the relevant email.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must include only fully completed and signed new Z83 form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a recent updated Curriculum
Vitae with full personal details, experience including three names of
contactable referees. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate
and the highest required qualifications as well as a driver’s license where
necessary will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human
Resources on or before the day of the interview date. Failure to do so will result
in the application being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants should ensure that they submit
their applications on or before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If more than one position is applied for, a separate application for
each post should be completed. Candidates on SMS and MMS posts will be
subjected to a competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements. The requirements for appointment at
Senior Management Service level include the successful completion of Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government. Candidate must provide proof of successful completion of the
course. Due to the large number of applications envisaged to be received,
applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment
process, a moratorium is placed on the filling of posts or the Department is
affected by any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or
reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel the
recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the future. NB: The
Department reserves the right not to fill a position. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time
to be determine by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to personnel suitability checks. The successful candidate will undergo security
vetting. DARDLEA will conduct reference checks which will include social
media profiles of the shortlisted candidates. Please note that by responding to
the advert, you consent to the collection, processing and storing of your
personal information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the purpose of the
advertisement and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent
unless required by law. Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
97
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this
be uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of the security clearance process. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and sign a
performance agreement with the Department.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/123 : DIRECTOR: POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/ 2025/11/01
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Natural Sciences / Environmental Science /
Environmental Management or relevant qualification on (NQF7) within the
related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience
at Middle/Senior managerial level within the related field. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG). Extensive experience of working in
the waste management, drafting of policies, and plan development. A valid
driver’s licence. The successful candidate will be required to be registered with
Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South Africa
professional body (EAPASA). Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the Extended Producer Responsibility policies and legislative
framework. Policy and Plans drafting, report writing, good interpersonal
relations, well-developed communications skills, analytical thinking, business
and legal writing skills, advanced computer skills. Excellent time management
and discipline in terms of keeping to deadlines. Willingness to travel and must
be able to work independently and efficiently under pressure. Leadership
experience. Experience in monitoring and evaluation. Extensive technical
experience in environmental/waste information management and in project
management. Knowledge and understanding of the policy and environmental
legislative framework governing pollution and waste management, and public
sector prescripts (PSA, PAJA, PFMA and PAIA).
DUTIES : Develop provincial policies, plans and strategies on pollution, and waste
management. Provide support to local municipalities in developing waste plans
and guidelines aligned to provincial policies and plans. Provide technical inputs
and guidance to national legislation and policies. Conduct socio-economic
impact assessment for regulatory instruments underdevelopment. Manage the
development and maintenance of the South African Waste Information System
for chemicals and waste management. Promote pollution prevention and waste
information management and dissemination. Collect, analysis, manage and
disseminate information on pollution, chemicals and waste management.
Undertake and promote appropriate research on chemicals and waste
management. Undertake, coordinate the extended producer responsibility
policies. Manage the development and review of the state of waste report.
Manage stakeholder relationships. Establish and maintain internal controls and
reporting systems to meet performance goals, provide a monthly, quarterly and
annual reports on financial and non- financial performance for the directorate.
Provide technical support to all key stakeholders on chemicals and waste
information and knowledge management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/124 : DIRECTOR: ENGINEERING AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA 2025/11/04
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in
Agriculture, Natural Resource Management, Land-Use Planning, Agricultural
Engineering or equivalent. Registration with professional body. A minimum of
5 years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial level in
agriculture / natural resource management (or equivalent). A valid driver’s
98
licence. Competencies: In-depth knowledge of agriculture sector, engineering,
natural resource management, land-use planning, agricultural engineering,
conservation of agricultural resources, disaster risk reduction. Strong
understanding of applicable legislation and policy frameworks (e.g., CARA,
PFMA, Treasury regulations, Batho Pele principles). Project and programme
management, financial management, monitoring & evaluation. Strategic
leadership, decision-making, high-level communication (both verbal & written),
report-writing. Stakeholder engagement, negotiation, facilitation. Problem-
solving, innovation, risk management, change management. Time
management, planning/organising, computer literacy. Good interpersonal
relations. Ability to work under pressure. Emotional intelligence. Independent
thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership, policy and programme direction for the
sustainable utilisation and management of natural agricultural resources in
engineering services, LandCare, land-use management, disaster risk
reduction, and resource-conservation. Manage financial, human and assets
within the directorate, ensuring compliance with the Public Finance
Management Act, 1999 (PFMA), Treasury regulations, procurement,
performance management and reporting. Provide leadership and oversight for
project and programme planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation,
performance management and continuous improvement of service delivery.
Champion climate-resilient agriculture and land-use Management. Ensure the
directorate adheres to legislative/regulatory frameworks (e.g., CARA and
environmental laws) and integrate risk management and compliance functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/125 : DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/05
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor's Degree or Advance Diploma (NQF level 7) or
equivalent, as recognized by SAQA, in Labour Relations/Human Resource
Management/Labour Law/LLB or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial level in Labour
Relations. Pre-entry certificate for senior management service (Nyukela
certificate). Skills and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Labour Relations,
Human Resource Management and Public Service prescripts which includes
Collective Agreements. In depth knowledge of dispute resolution process /
procedure in the PSBCBC, GPSSBC, and other related labour forums. Ability
to develop creative solutions to effectively solve problems while maintaining
consistency with policies, standards, procedures, laws and regulations; Good
decision-making skills, including the ability to negotiate, advise and influence
line managers. Good analytical skills, conflict resolution, problem solving,
facilitation skills, verbal and written communication; Proven computer literacy,
including advanced MS Word, MS Excel and MS Power Point including report
writing and presentation skill. Good interpersonal, strategic leadership, and
Project Management, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management and Change Management. Ability to foster partnerships and
stakeholder management. Willingness to work irregular hours and travel
extensively. A valid drivers' license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be reporting to the Chief Director: Corporate
Services and will be responsible to provide strategic and leadership direction
in the Labour Relations Directorate. Manage relationships with recognized
Trade Unions in ensuring cordial and constructive interaction and acting as
management representative in cases where disputes arise. Conduct research
on collective bargaining trends and advise management on labour relations
developments particularly where policy and procedural changes may be
required. Represent the Department in conciliations and or mediation process
and arbitrations hearings. Coordinate and manage employee disciplinary
process, conflict resolution process and oversee dispute resolution. Manage
relationships with recognized trade unions ensuring cordial and constructive
interaction and acting as management representative in cases relating
collective bargaining. Develop Labour Relations policies and procedure
manuals in the Department in line with the relevant legislative frameworks.
Ensure that line managers are effectively trained in handling labour relations
matters. Develop and maintain labour relations service level agreements with
99
internal and external stakeholders and represent the department in all Labour
Relations Fora and ensure the effective, efficient and economical management
and utilization of resources allocated to the Directorate as outlined in the
legislative framework for good governance. Analyse Labour Relations data,
identify trends, prepare and submit reports to the Executive Management.
Management of human resources and finances of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/126 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/06
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have an appropriate qualification in Law at NQF 7 as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle
management / senior managerial level in a legal environment. Proven
extensive practical experience within a legal environment Completion of
Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management Service) upon
appointment A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: The successful
candidate must have an in-depth knowledge of all legal prescripts applicable
to the public service and in particular the Constitution of South Africa (Act 108
of 1996). Advanced knowledge of South African Constitutional Law,
Administrative Law, Law of Contract, Interpretation of statutes, Planning and
Development Law, Civil Litigation, and Mediation, the Code of Conduct for
Public Servants, Bill of Rights, and any other legal aspects applicable to South
African Law. Broad knowledge of the interpretation of statutes, good knowledge
and experience in drafting all legal matters and interpreting legislation;
managing human, physical and financial resources, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, Minimum of
Information Security Standard (MISS). National & Provincial Practice Notes,
Human Rights Act, Promotion of the Administrative Justice Act, Skills
Development Act, National Development Plan. Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Service regulatory framework, e.g. Public Service Act, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service Delivery
Frameworks. Knowledge of Departmental Policy and Procedures. Knowledge
of implementing policies. Sound human relations and interpersonal skills Ability
to provide legal advice Negotiation, legal research, including (legal) analytical
skills Ability to meet tight deadlines, work independently, and be willing to work
irregular hours. Proven ability to communicate at all levels including, Provincial
Departments, HOD, Senior Management, OTP, Departmental personnel,
Members of the Ministry, Other departments; Members of the public. Computer
literacy, report writing, strategic planning, negotiating skills, program, and
project management principles, report writing, and presentation skills. Broad
knowledge of service delivery innovation, and change management. Strategic
and leadership, policy analysis and development, management, and
administration, advanced written and verbal communication, people
management, corporate planning, decision making, research, knowledge
management, problem-solving and analysis, client orientation, and customer
focus. Ability to work independently, honesty, integrity, and innovation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to Provide guidance and support to
the entire department, advise the MEC, Senior Management, and staff in all
legal matters to manage and mitigate legal risks that might face the department
Manage the provision of effective litigation management in the department.
Manage the provision of effective legal drafting of opinions and contracts.
Coordinate with other departments on all legal-related issues that have a direct
bearing on the Department and ensure the recovery of costs of its activities
whenever possible. Manage the provision of legal advisory support services
Coordinate legislative review and reform program in the department Manage
and co-ordinate the Departmental Legislative program including the Provincial
Rationalization of Laws Project Manage human, financial, and other physical
resources of the component/Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
100
POST 40/127 : DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/07
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a SAQA recognized Bachelor's degree in
Financial / Business / Public / Commerce Management or any equivalent/
relevant qualification (NQF level 7). Successful Completion of Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela). Executive Management
Development Program Certificate/Post Graduate qualification in Finance/
Business/Commerce/Business Management (NQF 8) will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management / senior
managerial level. Applicants must have extensive experience in the asset
management environment. A valid driver’s licence. Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, Modified Cash Standard, Accounting Manual for
Departments & other relevant prescripts. Sound organising, planning and
leadership skills. Ability to develop, interpret and implement policies. Able to
work under pressure and must be willing to travel across the province. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Knowledge of Microsoft word,
PowerPoint and excel. Knowledge of LOGIS and BAS systems. Problem
solving analyses and change management. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance to the provisions of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
National Transport Policy, Asset Management Framework, Modified Cash
Standard and Accounting Manual for Departments. Ensure effective and
efficient management of assets under the control of the department including
inventory. Ensure that a complete, accurate and reliable Fixed Asset Register
is in place. Ensure effective and efficient asset disposal management. Provide
effective and efficient transport services and ensure economic use of
departmental vehicles. Ensure compliance with all relevant reporting
requirements coupled with timeous submission of monthly and quarterly
reports. Ensure proper management of assets through physical asset
verification, FAR update with additions, disposals, losses, leases and etcetera.
Ensure that relevant notes to the Interim and Annual Financial Statements are
prepared and submitted for proper reporting and submission. Manage the
performance of leases. Ensure proper handling of audit queries. Ensure
monthly asset reconciliations are conducted. Manage human resources and
performance of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/128 : DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/08
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a SAQA recognized Bachelor's degree in
Financial / Business/ Public/ Commerce Management or any equivalent/
relevant qualification (NQF level 7). Successful Completion of Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela). A minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior management level. Proven managerial and
financial management competencies. A valid drivers licence. Skills and
Competencies: Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management and Communication (written and verbal) skills and
competencies. Knowledge of Financial Management, cost accounting and
business practices. Ability to establish and manage financial systems and
controls. Knowledge of HR management practices, Government Legislative
Frameworks and other Public Service Regulatory Frameworks. Skills in
Financial Planning, Budgeting, Sound Management, Planning and Organizing.
Ability to develop, interpret and implement policies, strategies and legislations.
Sound knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Instructions, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Regulations. Ability to work
under pressure and a valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic financial leadership and direction to ensure effective financial
management and compliance with government regulations. Manage
accounting and reporting in compliance with the requirements of the Public
101
Finance Management Act (PFMA) requirements. Manage the development
and maintenance of accounting reporting policies, strategies and procedures.
Ensure facilitation of all financial and auditing requirements. Manage
departmental budget, administration and reporting processes in line with
PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Guidelines. Manage human resources and
performance of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/129 : DIRECTOR: LAND REFORM MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/09
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : BSC in Agricultural Science/ Bachelor’s Degree in Agriculture / BTech in
Agriculture/ Rural Development (NQF Level 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). A postgraduate degree will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management / senior
managerial level in Agriculture, Rural Development, Economics, Land and
Agrarian programmes. A valid driver’s license. Pre-entry certificate for senior
management service (Nyukela certificate). Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge of Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management and Communication (written and verbal). Knowledge of
contract management. Knowledge of applicable legislation frameworks such
as, Public Finance Management Act Treasury Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, Public Service Act, and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
Government policies and priorities in terms of Agriculture, Land Reform and
Rural Development, supply chain management practices and other relevant
prescripts. Extended working hours and prepared to travel. Experience in
capacity building and good programme facilitation skills. Team building and
decision-making skills. Must have good verbal and written commination skills
to facilitate various collaborations with a variety of stakeholders and must be
computer literate (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and MS Outlook).
Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous changing
environment.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be reporting to the Chief Director: District
Services and will be responsible to provide strategic and leadership direction
in the Directorate. Manage the provision of Agricultural Extension and Advisory
service. Facilitate the establishment of extension forums. Evaluate and report
on extension programmes. Establish and participate in institutional structures
for planning, implementation and coordination of agricultural projects. Manage
the provision of all agricultural specific interventions and support land reform
projects. Development and implementation of policies, review and amend as
and when required based on inputs from stakeholders. Facilitate, manage and
implement strategic directions, development and support for land reform
programme and rural development. Facilitate the resolution of specific
challenges facing the sector. Provide monitoring and evaluation oversight of
land reform programme and produce relevant reports. Participate in different
forums that contribute towards development of Agriculture and Land Reform.
Manage Mentorship and Graduate policies and practices. Provide information
services to mentorship and graduates participants. Identify exit opportunities
for Graduates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/130 : DIRECTOR: EHLANZENI NORTH DISTRICT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/10
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North (Thulamahashe)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification or Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Agriculture/
Agricultural economics/ agricultural extension, coupled with A minimum of 5
years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial level and,
knowledge in Agricultural development. Successful completion of the Pre-entry
Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the NSG is required. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of extension methodologies and land reform.
102
Sound knowledge of PFM and PSR, PSA, LRA. Knowledge of project
management, change management, strategic planning, report writing,
facilitation, coordination planning and organizing, diversity management.
Computer literacy, good communication skills (written and verbal). Good agri-
business skills and leadership. Good networking skills with different stake
holders. A valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Provide overall management of the district agricultural services and its
activities in the municipalities. Human resource management and
development. Operational and financial management (supply chain
management, budget, expenditure and financial reviews in the district).
Manage agricultural developments and provide support service to IDP/ LED
planning environment of the municipalities. Implementing the land and agrarian
reform programme. Providing support and guidance in compiling business
plans of projects funded through conditional grants. Compiling district reports.
Participate in the Department’s strategic planning and performance reviews.
Advice stakeholders on agricultural production and related matters. Advice
farmers on the optimal land use practices. Promote, monitor and evaluate
agricultural developments. Promote adoption of new technologies and best
practices. Promote the uplifting of rural peasant households. Implement
comprehensive farmer support programmes. Coordinate the planning and
implementation of natural resource management projects. Coordinate the
planning and implementation poverty alleviation, household food security
programmes and job creation projects. Provide appropriate advisory support
to develop and strengthen the capacity of the farmers. Managing and
supervising projects. Implement the extension and advisory and recovery plan.
Ensure that farmers participate in disaster and risk management programmes.
Facilitate the farmer’s organization for effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/131 : DIRECTOR: MASIBUYELE EMASIMINI REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/11
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of the Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
NSG is required. Candidates must possess a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) in
Agriculture/ Agricultural economics/ agricultural extension A minimum of A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial
level. Skills and Competencies: Applicants must demonstrate comprehensive
knowledge and understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations
governing the Public Service, including the Public Financial Management Act
and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, and the Labour Relations
Act. An understanding of South African government imperatives, priorities, and
sector-specific requirements—particularly concerning capacity development,
agrarian reform, and food security—is essential. Familiarity with government
policies and priorities related to food security, as well as knowledge of the
country’s food security systems, is required. An understanding of social
development and poverty issues affecting the nation, along with health and
nutrition matters, is also necessary. Awareness of rural and small farmers’
issues and needs is important. Candidates should possess knowledge of the
White Paper on the Transformation of the Public Service (Batho Pele).
Proficiency in financial management, strategic capability and leadership,
programme and project management, and knowledge management is
required. Skills in service delivery innovation, problem-solving and analysis,
people management and empowerment, and client orientation and customer
focus are essential. Effective communication, honesty, integrity, and change
management skills are also necessary. Willingness to work extended hours
and undertake travel, including international travel, is expected.
DUTIES : Establish provincial frameworks to advance sustainable household food
security programmes. Supervise collaborations with both internal and external
stakeholders engaged in food security initiatives. Lead the Directorate in
executing policy priorities and achieving strategic objectives, including target
setting. Manage the coordination and reporting of agricultural interventions;
coordinate and implement land reform and other agrarian interventions.
Manage the development and implementation of policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
103
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/132 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/12
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Bachelor’s degree/Advanced Diploma / BTech (NQF Level 7) in
Information Technology / Computer Science / Informatics with a minimum of
five years’ functional work experience at an Assistant Director or middle
Management level in complex ICT Application complex environment as
Application developer using ASP.NET/JAVA, JQuery, HTML5, Oracle and
PLSQL, e.t.c. A valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: Sound
knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, Public Service, National Treasury
Regulations and ICT prescripts. Software languages and associated
development platforms and tools, Multi-tier Software architectures and
interfaces, System monitoring (availability, manageability, reliability and
security), Software development methodologies, IT service management
principles for incident, Change, Problem and Release Management, Technical
standards/procedures, Expertise in selected software languages, associated
framework and tools, Departmental Procedures and Processes. Presentation
and project management skills. Information and data Security. Risk
assessment and mitigation. Disaster recovery technologies.
DUTIES : Implement enhancements for software applications. Monitor the maintenance
of all customized software applications. Engage with other ICT teams to deliver
ICT solutions. Manage and supervise resources within the sub-directorate.
Coordinate training and information provision to give support to Provincial
Departments for effective and efficient use of the systems in their daily
activities. Providing support to the Provincial Departments by assisting them in
obtaining management information using systems. Compile standard policies
and procedure manuals for internal security profiles and control deviations.
Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/133 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PRODUCTION AND PUBLICATION (GRAPHIC
DESIGNER) REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/13
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced
National Diploma (NQF 6/ 7) or equivalent qualification in Communications
Studies / in Graphic Design/ Audio-Visual Production/ Media Studies/ or related
field, with a minimum of five years managerial experience in a Junior
Management level (Assistant Director level). Knowledge and experience in
Communications, publication and/ or information services. A portfolio of
previous publications will be an added advantage. Knowledge of design
software, such as Adobe Creative Suite: Photoshop, Adobe Creative Suite:
Illustrator, Adobe Creative SuiteInDesign, Corel Draw, and Microsoft Office.
Good Communication with excellent organizational and writing skills and ability
to interact at high profile levels. The ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long hours. A valid driver’s license. Skills And
Competencies: Planning and organizing. Financial management. Change
management. Knowledge management. People management and
empowerment. Programme and project management. Service delivery
innovations. Client orientation and customer focus. Problem solving and
analysis. Communications.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to co-ordinate the production of
the external provincial government publication. Co-ordinate the production of
the internal staff bulletin Render proof reading and editing services for
documents and publications. Co-ordinate the design of corporate materials for
the Department. Co-ordinate the audio-visual services for the Department.
Manage human and financial resources of the Production and Publication Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo: Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
104
POST 40/134 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/14
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Bachelor’s degree/Advanced Diploma/BTech (NQF Level 07) in
Computer Science/Information Technology and Informatics with a minimum of
five years’ functional work experience in at an Assistant Director or middle
Management with proficiency in data and Voice-over-IP (VoIP) networking
experience. Any relevant ICT Infrastructure certificate is an advantage. A valid
driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: Working knowledge of Microsoft
server environment, Windows operating systems (AD and MS Exchange
Server) and Microsoft Office packages. Management of Software licenses.
Networking environment –LAN/WAN, networking/Troubleshooting and
experience in routers/switch configuration Telecommunication Systems –
Knowledge of PABX and telecom systems, (TMS, VolP). Virtualization
Solutions, SAN administration and Cloud hosted services. Knowledge of ICT
Security technologies. Sound knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, Public
Service, National Treasury Regulations and ICT prescripts. Information and
data Security. Risk assessment and mitigation. Disaster recovery technologies.
Presentation and project management skills.
DUTIES : Development, implementation and monitoring of ICT Infrastructure Plan.
Provision and maintenance of the telecommunications systems and network
infrastructure. Oversees management and protection of the data ensuring
adherence to standards and operating procedures to data access and
preservation of data and storage. Manage the maintenance and support of all
computer end-user devices and computerized systems, information processing
equipment and software. Sets the direction and oversee ICT infrastructure
projects and implement ICT projects methodologies. Assists in the acquisition
of ICT equipment and software through developing specifications and giving
advice on the new technologies procured. Coordinate the compilation of
various reports and statistics for the section. Manage human and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/135 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/15
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A three year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6/ 7) in Human Resource
Management / Public Admin / Public Management or any related field.
Minimum five years working experience within Service Conditions unit at an
Assistant Director level. Competencies: Knowledge and experience of Pension
Management, Leave Management, Government Housing Scheme and Medical
Aid. Strategic thinking, Financial Management and budgeting, Diversity
Management, Project Management, Team leadership, People Management,
Planning and organising, Negotiation skills and Presentation skills.
Communication skills (verbal and written), Client Orientation and customer
focus. Managing Interpersonal Conflict and resolving problems. Knowledge,
understanding and application of Human Resource Management with
reference to Conditions of Service in the Public Service. Labour and
Employment legislations. Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA).
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public Service Act as
amended, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Relevant PSBC resolutions and directives, Computer literacy (Microsoft Office
package), Salary Administration System (PERSAL) Personnel Certificate,
Knowledge of BPA system. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Manage implementation of Service Benefits. Manage Service Terminations.
Conduct Exit Interviews, analyse trends and present findings to management.
Develop long term strategies to address employee turnover. Manage Leave
Matters including PILIR. Conduct research in developing and reviewing
policies. Liaison with line managers and stakeholders for inputs on policy
development/review. Conduct awareness campaigns on new and reviewed
policies. Communicate departmental plans and offer guidance to all
employees. Provide inputs to line management and unit for budgeting
105
purposes. Compile the unit’s operational plan. Maintain high standards by
ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality /
quantity and within prescribed timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and
control with minimum guidance from manager. Supervision and Delegation of
functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary guidance
and support and afford staff adequate training and development opportunities.
Ensure Performance Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development
Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates are developed and implemented timeously.
Manage employee performance daily and ensure timely submission of
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure assets are managed,
maintained and kept safely by subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/136 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/16
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate with a Degree/ diploma (NQF Level 06/ 07) in Public
Administration or Developmental Studies or equivalent qualification as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). 5 years
experience as an Assistant Director in Special Programmes or Transversal
Services. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulation (PSR) of 2016.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of
legislation or prescripts on People with Disabilities (PWD), Children, Youth and
Older Persons. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Communication (verbal and writing) skills, good presentation skills, ability to
work under pressure, meeting tight deadlines, ability to work with a team,
problem solving, project management, computer literacy and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Monitor programme alignment to prescripts on the rights of PWDs, Children,
Youth and Older Persons. Conduct advocacy on the rights of designated
groups. Monitor and report on programme performance on special
programmes. Manage the finances of the Sub-Directorate. Manage the human
resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/137 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/17
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : An (NQF level 6/ 7) qualification in Human Resource Management / Public
Admin / Public Management or any related field. Minimum 5 years working
experience at an Assistant Director level within Human Resource Management
and Development environment. Competencies: visionary, Strategic thinking,
and experience in managing diverse teams. Ability to manage projects, lead
change initiatives and implement new policies and systems Financial
Management and budgeting, Diversity Management, Programme and relations
management. Accountability and ethical conduct. Analytical skills. Project
Management, Team leadership, People Management, Planning and
organising, Negotiation skills and Presentation skills. Communication skills
(verbal and written), Client Orientation and customer focus. Managing
Interpersonal Conflict and resolving problems. Knowledge, proficient in
relevant software packages, including MS Office. Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public
Service Act as amended, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Relevant PSBC resolutions and directives, Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office package) PERSAL) Knowledge of BPA system. A valid driver's
licence.
DUTIES ; Manage corporate services in the District i.e recruitment, employee relations,
performance management, Information technology, administration,
communications, OHS and HR planning. Assist with the development and
implementation of strategic plan. Ensure line manager execute their business
plan within the objectives of HR plan. Monitor Corporate services policy
106
implementation. Oversee budget in line with government regulations. Manage
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/138 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/ 18
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
REQUIREMENTS : An (NQF level 6/ 7) qualification in Human Resource Management / Public
Admin / Public Management or any related field. Minimum 5 years working
experience at an Assistant Director level within Human Resource Management
and Development environment Competencies: visionary, Strategic thinking,
and experience in managing diverse teams. Ability to manage projects, lead
change initiatives and implement new policies and systems Financial
Management and budgeting, Diversity Management, Programme and relations
management. Accountability and ethical conduct. Analytical skills. Project
Management, Team leadership, People Management, Planning and
organising, Negotiation skills and Presentation skills. Communication skills
(verbal and written), Client Orientation and customer focus. Managing
Interpersonal Conflict and resolving problems. Knowledge, proficient in
relevant software packages, including MS Office. Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public
Service Act as amended, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Relevant PSBC resolutions and directives, Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office package) PERSAL) Knowledge of BPA system. A valid driver's
licence.
DUTIES : Manage corporate services in the district i.e recruitment, employee relations,
performance management, Information technology, administration,
communications, OHS and HR planning. Assist with the development and
implementation of strategic plan. Ensure line manager execute their business
plan within the objectives of HR plan. Monitor Corporate services policy
implementation. Oversee budget in line with government regulations. Manage
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PMDS REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/19
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree/ Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Human Resources
Management/ Development/ Training and Development/ Management of
Training/ Public Management/ Public Administration. Five (5) years' experience
in Performance Management. Knowledge: Public Service Act, Public Service
Management Act, Treasury Regulation, Human Resource Management
Policies, Human Resource Systems and Procedures, Performance
Management, Labour Relations Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Regulations as amended, PSCBC Resolutions, Knowledge of SMS handbook,
Public Service Act as amended, DPSA directives and other Human Resource
Prescripts. Knowledge of administrative procedures, and project management.
Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Labour and
Employment legislations. Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA).
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft
Office package), Communication skills (verbal and written), Negotiation skills,
Conflict Resolution skills, Planning and Organising skills and Presentation
skills. Personal and Salary Administration System (PERSAL) Personnel
Certificate. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Manage performance management and Development system in the
department. Manage and administer the SMS Performance Management
System. Manage and administer the Performance Management and
Development System. Manage the coordination and facilitation of support to
Moderation Committee Service in the Department. Develop, Review and
Manage the implementation of PMDS Policies and processes to ensure
compliance. Conduct training on PMDS. Manage and facilitate the PMDS
processes of submission of Performance Agreements, Mid-term assessments,
Annual assessments and probation reports for both members of Senior
Management Service (SMS) and non-SMS. Ensure quality assurance of SMS
107
and non-SMS Performance Agreements, Mid-term assessments, Annual
assessments and probation reports. Administer SMS and non-SMS
moderation processes, manage databases, implementations on PERSAL, and
facilitate the appointment of moderation committees. Effective facilitation of the
implementation of the incentive framework and collective agreements,
including OSD and non-OSD. Ensure that awareness and training sessions on
PMDS are conducted. Ensure accurate data capturing, reporting, and provide
reports to Management. Manage dispute resolution or disagreement process
emanating from Performance Agreements, Mid-term assessment, Annual
assessment, and probation reports. Provide technical advice to stakeholders,
and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
DESIGN REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/20
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession Degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Management Service/Work-study /Human Resource Management / Public
Administration / Public Management/ Industrial Psychology, supplemented by
a certificate in Applied Organisational Development programme or Work-study,
Job evaluation. A minimum of three (3) years' experience working in
organisational design and Job evaluation. Competencies: Knowledge and
experience of Organisational Design and Job Evaluation process. Knowledge
of Human Resource Management, Labour and Employment legislations.
Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office package),
Communication skills (verbal and written), Negotiation skills, Conflict
Resolution skills, Planning and Organising skills and Presentation skills.
Personal and Salary Administration System (PERSAL) Personnel Certificate.
A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Design, reviewing, align and maintain organizational structure in line with the
Departmental strategic plan. Conducting work study investigations.
Determining the correct grading of posts on a continuous basis through Job
Evaluation. Facilitating the process of developing Job Descriptions (new and
existing job descriptions). Managing Job Description database and Job
Evaluation records. Providing submissions, reports, statistics and
presentations on the above. Facilitate and co-ordinate workshops on job
evaluation to capacitate line Managers. Conduct research on the above
including best practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/141 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT FACILITATION REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/21
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A National diploma or Degree (NQF 6) in Human resource management, Public
Management, Social Science or related field. 3 years’ experience in skills
development and Training Coordination of which two years must be
supervisory experience. A valid drivers incense. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Human resource management and Legislation such as Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations. Time management, training and
mentoring skills, diversity management. Eperience in skills development and
training coordination. Experience in managing long-term training programmes
like internships. Experience in drafting and submitting WSP reports various
SETA’s. project management skills and being able to coordinate and manage
training initiative and development projects. Strong verbal and written
communication skills including report writing and presentation abilities.
Computer literacy in the Microsoft package i.e Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
Knowledge of PERSAL system. Ability to work independently and as part of a
team, under pressure, and take initiative.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and manage the Department’s WSP and annual training
report and liaise with service providers. Serve as liaison between the
108
Department and the relevant SETA’s. promote a culture of learning and
development within the Department Coordinate orientation and induction
programme. Coordinate skill audit and training needs analysis process to
identify skills gap. Implement internship and experiential learning
programmes. Compile and submit training report to management. Serve as
secretary and advisor during training committee meetings. Ensure compliance
with skills development Legislation. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/142 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDIA LIAISON REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/22
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus a 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Communication/ Journalism/ Marketing or equivalent
qualification. Exceptional oral and writing skills. Good interpersonal relations
skills. Computer literacy. Policy analysis and development. Research skills. A
valid driver’s licence. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of prescripts
applicable in Public Service. Strong written and verbal communication, and
media relations expertise. Computer literacy, the ability to work under pressure
and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for implementing media
engagement plans, identify relevant media platforms to profile the Department.
Conceptualize media content such as media advisories and media statements
for approval by the supervisor Establish and maintain good relations with the
media and analyse media trends in the province and departmental priorities.
Ensure media monitoring, summarize and analyse key communication issues
affecting the Department. Conduct research and information gathering for
articles and media statements. Compile and issue weekly diary for the
Departmental activities. Facilitate media accreditation, coordinate venues for
media registration and interviews.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/143 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PRODUCTION AND PUBLICATION REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/23
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and National Diploma/Degree (NQF 6) in Graphic Design
or equivalent qualification. Three years’ experience in Graphic Design. A
portfolio of previous publications will be an added advantage. Knowledge of
design software’s, such as Adobe Creative Suite: Photoshop, Adobe Creative
Suite: Illustrator, Adobe Creative SuiteInDesign, Corel Draw, and Microsoft
Office. Writing, digital media and photographic skills will be an added
advantage. The ability to work under pressure and willingness to work long
hours. A valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of
prescripts applicable in the Public Service. Strong written and verbal
communication, and media relations expertise. Computer literacy, The ability
to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Production of departmental publications, including Annual Report, Policy and
Budget Speech, Internal and External newsletters, Booklets, Presentations
and Promotional Material. Maintain departmental corporate image and identity
on all documents and events. Writing, digital media and photographic skills will
be an added advantage. Give creative direction on supplied briefs. Maintain
departmental corporate image and identity on all documents and events.
Multimedia design and production. Provide high quality videos for broadcasting
in digital platforms. Provide audio-visual services to departmental events.
Archiving pictures, footage and videos on audio-visual library. Social media
engagement and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
109
POST 40/144 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/24
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A (3) three-year Degree or National Diploma (NQF 6) in Security Management.
3 years’ experience in security management or job-related knowledge. Skills
And Competencies: A broad knowledge of Minimum Information Security
Standard (MISS). A sound knowledge and understanding of the South African
Media Landscape, site and operations. Planning and organizational skills,
analytical skills, communication skills (verbal and written). Ability to work under
pressure and willingness to work irregular hours. A valid drivers license. Ability
to travel extensively and ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate and promote safety and security in terms of Minimum Physical
Security Standards (MPSS) and Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) in the province. Attend and conduct meetings with appointed Security
Service providers to ensure contract compliance on a monthly basis. Conduct
inspections at all Departmental facilities. Conduct physical security audits,
assessments in all offices of the Department. Assist in coordinating and
monitoring of key custodians in all District offices. Monitor the implementation
of SOP: Key control procedures. Conduct inspections on electronic security
systems. Report all defects to the service provider. Monitor the maintenance
and service repost against scope of work. Participate in all Departmental
plenary meetings. Ensure that Z204 (81/97244) is issued and database
updated. Ensure that security vetting file is submitted to state Security Agency
within the required time frame. Manage safety and security at all Departmental
events. Plan safety and security as per Standard Operating Procedure for
events. Liaise with Security Cluster Members for coordination of section and
meetings. Accreditation/ registration of guests and delegates. Apply and
request a categorization from South African Police Service. Submit and
operational plan Monitor event and submit a feedback report.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe: Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/145 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/25 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognised National Diploma or Bachelor's
degree / B-Tech (NQF 6) in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics / Purchasing
or other relevant qualification with a minimum 03 years work experience in
Supply Chain Management. Minimum three (3) years’ experience at
supervisory (Level 7/8) within Supply Chain Management Environment.
Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
National Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act (PPPFA) of 2000 and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based
Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement
prescripts Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's licence.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and
commitment to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal
and written communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation
and People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders
at all levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated,
Ability to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and
in a team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering
excellent results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : Manage the generation of purchase orders and screening for compliance and
approval thereof. Coordinate and review the processing of requisitions for
goods and services. Ensure effective LOGIS administration and
implementation. Compile weekly LOGIS commitment report. Perform monthly
reconciliation reports. Management of uploaded documents on the BPA
system. Receive, capture and forward invoices of goods and services to the
expenditure section. Ensure proper usage and support provision to all users of
the Invoice Tracking System. Coordinate the safekeeping and distribution of
consumables. Supervise employees to ensure an effective logistics
management services and undertake all administrative functions required with
110
regard to financial and HR administration. Ensure effective, efficient and
economical utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/146 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT AND SUPPLY CHAIN
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/26
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognised National Diploma or Bachelor's
degree / B-Tech (NQF 6) in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics / Purchasing
or other relevant qualification with a minimum 03 years work experience in
Supply Chain Management. Minimum three (3) years’ experience at
supervisory (Level 7/8) within Supply Chain Management Environment
Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
National Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act (PPPFA) of 2000 and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based
Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement
prescripts Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's licence.
Skills And Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and
commitment to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal
and written communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation
and People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders
at all levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated,
Ability to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and
in a team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering
excellent results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : Develop and update contract register, track contract performance and
timelines. Conduct assessment of suppliers' performance. Ensure provision of
secretariat duties to the Bid Adjudication Committee. Manage the rotation of
contracted service providers. Manage and monitor the implementation of
service level agreement. Safeguarding of contract related documentation and
files thereof. Ensure that all active contracts are captured on contract
management systems. Ensure quality assurance of invoices. Facilitate
contract dispute resolutions through the Contract Management Committee
Ensure compliance with SCM policies and applicable prescripts. Compile
monthly and quarterly reports. Supervise employees to ensure an effective
logistics management services and undertake all administrative functions
required with regard to financial and HR administration. Ensure effective,
efficient and economical utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/147 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/27 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate, and a National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) Financial
Accounting, Cost and Management Accounting, Internal Auditing or relevant
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 3
Years relevant experience in a Financial Accounting or related field knowledge
of Financial Management. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of Public
Service Financial Legislative Frameworks PFMA and Treasure Regulations.
Must have extensive experience operating transversal financial systems (BAS
and LOGIS) Financial Management skills. Good Interpersonal relations,
problem solving, Good with people management. Must be computer literature
and be able to work both individually and in a team as well under extreme
pressure. Must in possession of a valid driver’s licence. Client orientation.
Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Receive/ checking/ recording all invoice, process payments and ensuring they
are paid within 30 days, filled systematic in a safe space after payment and
retrieval of payment vouchers when requested. Consolidate monthly reports/
creditors reconciliation/ Payables and Accruals. Prevent and report
Unauthorized/ irregular/ wasteful/ fruitless expenditure. Manage/develop/
evaluate performance of staff.
111
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/148 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/28
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6) in Finance /
Financial / Accounting Management as recognised by South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). At least a minimum of three (3) years’
experience at supervisory (Level 7/8) within Finance Environment. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of legislative prescripts governing the public sector
Financial Administration, with emphasis on the Public Finance Management
Act, MTEF guidelines and Treasury Regulations. Practical knowledge of Basic
Accounting System (BAS) and LOGIS including SCOA (Standard Chart of
Accountants). Analytical skills. Supervisory /Management skills. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Assist in preparing departmental budgets, including analysing historical
financial data and forecasting revenue and expenditure. Ensure budgets align
with departmental strategic objectives and priorities. Monitor and report on
budget performance, identifying areas for improvement and recommending
corrective actions. Ensure compliance with budgetary regulations and policies.
Conduct financial analysis and provide insights to inform budget decisions.
Analyse financial data to identify trends, risks, and opportunities for cost
savings. Prepare reports on budget performance, including variance analysis
and recommendations. Ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations, and
policies. Liaise with departmental officials, treasury representatives, and other
stakeholders to ensure effective budget management. Provide technical
guidance and support to budget managers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/149 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/29
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Transport Management, Public
Management/Administration or related field (NQF Level 6) or related as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 3 years relevant experience at supervisory
level and valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of a
variety of work ranges and procedures such as: Transport Management,
Transport Circulars, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act 1994,
Public Service Regulations 2001 as amended. Skills And Knowledge:
Communication skills; Negotiating skills; Facilitation skills; Report writing, Co-
operation skills; Liaison skills. Knowledge of Microsoft word, PowerPoint and
excel Client orientation and customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the procurement of new vehicles for government own and subsidized
vehicles; Manage registration and licensing of state vehicles; Manage the
repairs and maintenance of departmental fleet and disposal of worn out and
obsolete vehicles; Manage processing of fuel payment claims for all schemes
(MMS, SMS, A & B); Manage the provision and development of transport
manuals and policies. Liaise with districts regarding transport issues. Provide
on-the-job training for sub-ordinates. Manage personnel in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/150 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/30
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric Certificate and an appropriate NQF 6 Degree / Diploma in Internal
Audit / Risk management, Accounting and Cost Management as recognized by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). (3) years Internal audit
experience as an internal auditor of which (1) year should be supervisory
experience in Auditing field. Registration with IIA (Institute for Internal Auditors)
112
(Internal Audit Technician (IAT), the Professional Internal Auditor (PIA) or the
Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. Successful candidate will be required to complete a security clearance.
Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of legislative frameworks governing the
Public Service, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
regulations, Ability to apply concepts in audit assignments; King (IV) Report on
Corporate Governance, Internal Audit frameworks and methodologies, Global
Internal Audit Standards (GIAS) of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA).
Effective problem-solving skill due to professional care, High standard of
honesty, confidentiality, objectivity, diligence and loyalty. Planning and
organizing, Communication skills (verbal and written); Financial Management;
Computer literacy; Programme and project management; Interpersonal skills;
Ability to work in a team; Client orientation and customer focus, Research skills
and Leadership.
DUTIES : Supervise and execute Internal audit assurance and advisory engagements to
support implementation of the approved internal audit plans. Providing
assurance on governance, risk management and control processes in
accordance with the GIAS. Identify key risk areas as set out in the strategic
plan and risk management strategy. Participate in the development in the
three-year strategic risk based audit plan and annual audit operational plan.
Draft management report relating to weaknesses in controls, risk management
and governance and provide recommendations for improvements. Assess
management action plans and monitor implementation thereof. Supervise,
Coach and Manage performance development of Internal Auditors reporting
under the role.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/151 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/31
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) years National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6)
or equivalent qualification in Labour Relations/Human Resource Management
specializing in Labour Relations/Employment Relations. A minimum of three
years’ relevant experience in Labour Relations. At least one-year relevant
supervisory experience. A valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge of the relevant Public Service Regulatory Framework (Labour
Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations). Knowledge and
understanding of Labour Relations policies and procedures. Understanding of
all relevant Human Resources Legislations and policies. Problem solving skills.
Planning, organizing and time management. Excellent verbal and written
communications skills including negotiation and diplomacy. Policy analysis and
development. Research analysis. Facilitation and presentation. Stakeholder
and client liaison. Project administration. Innovation and creativity. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Ability to operate Microsoft Office
programmes effectively. Ability to work under pressure and people
management.
DUTIES : Provide advice to line managers regarding grievances, disputes and
misconduct cases. Represent the employer at conciliation and arbitration.
Conduct training (formal and informal). Facilitate conflict resolution and
represent the employer in dispute resolution hearings, conciliation and
arbitration. Implement, review and maintain Labour Relations policies and
procedures. Facilitate the administration of disciplinary cases including
preparation of charge sheets and the provision of support to the relevant role-
players, including presiding officers and departmental representatives. Give
support and render advice regarding policies, requirements and prescripts to
all stakeholders. Compile statistics and reports on Labour Relations matters.
Monitor whether Labour Relations matters are attended to by appointed
officials within stipulated time frames. Participate in Labour Relations fora and
related statutory bodies. Provide logistical and administrative support to State
Attorney.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
113
POST 40/152 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/32
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of an NQF 6 Degree/National Diploma in
Human Resource Management / Public Administration/ Public Management /
Labour Relations. At least 3 years' experience in service Conditions. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource Management in the Public
Service and employment legislation i.e. Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public
Finance Management Act, Employment Equity Act. Policy on Incapacity Leave
and Ill-health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA).
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft
Office package). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning and
organising skills. Knowledge and experience in pension administration and
leave management. Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide for Service conditions and Employee Benefits. Administer Service
Terminations. Quality assure documents received for termination of services.
Approve service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Complete and ensure
correct submission of pension forms including nominations forms. Follow-up
on all outstanding pension claims with Government Employees Pension Fund
(GEPF). Advice deceased employee's family to claim funeral benefit from
GEPF. Implement PERSAL transactions such as but not limited to housing, and
payment of allowances etc. Facilitate Leave administration processes.
Implement leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used on
PERSAL and E-leave Management systems. Ensure that leave applications
comply with policies and prescripts before approving on PERSAL. Ensure
proper administration of incapacity leave in the district. Conduct leave audit.
Conduct calculation of leave pay-out and ensure proper implementation.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT AND HR PLANNING REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/33
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Degree/National Diploma in Human
Resource Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration. A
minimum of three (3) years’ experience working in Human Resource
Management environment. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and
experience of the recruitment and selection process. Knowledge of Human
Resource Management. Labour and Employment legislations. Promotion of
Access to information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administration Justice Act
(PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office package). Computer skills (verbal
and written). Negotiation skills. Conflict Resolutions skills. Planning and
organizing skills and presentation skills. Personal and salary administration
system (PERSAL) Personnel certificate. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide advisory services pertaining to recruitment and selection processes.
Coordinate and facilitate the advertisement of vacant positions. Ensure
compliance with employment equity targets during the recruitment and
selection processes. Obtain approval for the appointment of the selection
committees to fill vacant positions. Ensure capturing of the job applications
received. Conduct screening of job applications. Arrange short listings and take
minutes of the proceedings. Schedule interviews and invite shortlisted
candidates for interviews. Provide secretariat support during te shortlisting and
interview processes. Conduct reference checks. Ensure that background
checks and qualification verification are conducted. Submit the
recommendation of the selection committee to the delegated authority for
approval. Provide feedback to successful and unsuccessful candidates.
Facilitate the implementation of appointments, transfers and translations on
PERSAL. Handle resettlement and relocation of staff. Coordinate and facilitate
Human Resource Planning related matters in the district. Maintain and update
staff establishment on PERSAL system in the district. Conduct exit interviews
114
and compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Supervise staff in the
Recruitment and Planning in the District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/154 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECUITMENT AND HR PLANNING REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/34
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an NQF 6 Degree/National Diploma in
Human Resource Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration. A
minimum of three (3) years’ experience working in Human Resource
Management environment. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and
experience of the recruitment and selection process. Knowledge of Human
Resource Management. Labour and Employment legislations. Promotion of
Access to information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administration Justice Act
(PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office package). Computer skills (verbal
and written). Negotiation skills. Conflict Resolutions skills. Planning and
organizing skills and presentation skills. Personal and salary administration
system (PERSAL) Personnel certificate. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide advisory services pertaining to recruitment and selection processes.
Coordinate and facilitate the advertisement of vacant positions. Ensure
compliance with employment equity targets during the recruitment and
selection processes. Obtain approval for the appointment of the selection
committees to fill vacant positions. Ensure capturing of the job applications
received. Conduct screening of job applications. Arrange short listings and take
minutes of the proceedings. Schedule interviews and invite shortlisted
candidates for interviews. Provide secretariat support during te shortlisting and
interview processes. Conduct reference checks. Ensure that background
checks and qualification verification are conducted. Submit the
recommendation of the selection committee to the delegated authority for
approval. Provide feedback to successful and unsuccessful candidates.
Facilitate the implementation of appointments, transfers and translations on
PERSAL. Handle resettlement and relocation of staff. Coordinate and facilitate
Human Resource Planning related matters in the district. Maintain and update
staff establishment on PERSAL system in the district. Conduct exit interviews
and compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Supervise staff in the
Recruitment and Planning in the District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/155 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COORDINATION, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/35
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree (NQF 6) in Social Sciences, Community Development,
Communication, Public Management or a related field required. A minimum of
three years of relevant experience required, especially in the areas of
monitoring and evaluation, community development, communications and
administration, is necessary. Skills And Competencies: Excellent leadership,
written, verbal, listening, and interpersonal skills are crucial for coordination
functions, and interacting/ liaising with various stakeholders at all levels. Acts
as a vital link between the clients, and stakeholders. This includes
communicating important information to programmes and other key
stakeholders. Strong organizational skills and proficiency with relevant
software are essential, substantiated by the need for data management, report
preparation, producing minutes, and assisting in the coordination electronic
and physical meetings as well as the management filing systems. Strategic
planning skills essential for planning, implementation and reporting the Unit’s
performance as well as assist in managing the department's budget and
financial matters. Reporting & Analysis: Monitors activities, resolved issues,
report updates to the Legislature & Office of the Premier, and handle data
collection and analysis.
DUTIES : Assist in the coordination of departmental reports for submission to oversight
bodies. Ensure compliance with regulations, internal policies and adherence
to the deadlines set for reports and minutes. Assist in the provision of
Secretarial services to departmental management structural meetings
115
provided Maintain scheduling of management meetings and represent the unit
when needed during the meeting proceedings Revise and implement and
monitor the plan for the Unit Produce reports on projects site visits and
attended outreach programmes for submission to the deputy director and other
executives Assist in the coordination of TLPs, oversight visits, and provincial/
national outreaches Monitor attainment of the Unit’s objectives Assist in
budgeting and monitoring expenses Fulfil duties and daily operations of the
office as assigned by the deputy director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/156 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET AND REVENUE REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/36
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate relevant qualification at NQF level 6 degree in Finance or
equivalent qualification in Accounting as recognized by SAQA. At least three
(3) years relevant and practical experience in budget & revenue. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of accounting and economics, experience in
financial analysis, evaluation and interpretation of reports. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and other relevant prescripts. Knowledge of government
transversal systems. Knowledge of Microsoft Word, PowerPoint and Excel.
Good communication skills both (verbal and written). Good presentation skills
and ability to communicate at all levels. Ability to work under pressure and
problem-solving analysis. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Managing and monitoring budget and revenue, ensuring compliance with
regulations, and analyzing financial performance. Coordinating the budget
process, analyzing budget utilization, monitoring revenue collection and
preparing financial reports. Manage personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/157 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE AND SALARIES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/37
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognized NQF 6 Degree/ National
Diploma in Finance and related fields. Postgraduate certificate and/or Degree
in finance related field will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license.
Minimum of 3 Years relevant experience in Financial Accounting or related field
knowledge of Financial Management Prescripts. Skills And Competencies:
Sound communication (written and verbal) skills and competencies.
Knowledge of procurement processes. Ability to establish and manage
financial systems and controls. Knowledge of Budgeting. Knowledge to
interpret and implement policies. Sound knowledge of Public Finance
management Act (PFMA), Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, Public
Service Regulations. Ability to work under pressure and a valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage the processing of payment vouchers from SCM. Approve payment
advice as per the delegation. Coordinate the collection of pay roll from Head
office and compile the monthly reports as required by prescripts. Manage and
ensure that invoices are processed and payment for goods and services on
Logis within 30 days. Handling of all relevant payment enquiries. Compile
payment schedules and make follow-ups to Head office. Facilitate creditor’s
reconciliation and compile creditors reconciliation reports on monthly basis.
Coordinate and facilitate payroll management, Collect and distribute payrolls
to pay points Managers. Administer Subsistence & Travell claims. Filling and
retrieval of voucher for audit. Compile quarterly accrual reports. Respond to
queries from internal and external clients. Print BAS reports and distribute to
the relevant managers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/158 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/38
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
116
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate relevant qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA in
Commerce / Accounting / Supply Chain Management / Logistics / Purchasing
Management / Public Management or equivalent. A minimum of three (3) year
of experience in the management accounting environment, asset management
or related financial. supervisory experience. Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge of SCM, procurement and business practices. Ability to control and
manage the acquisition of services and assets of the Department. Ability to
develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies and legislation. Ability to work
effectively and efficiently under sustained pressure. Ability to meet tight
deadlines whilst delivering excellent results Advance skills in financial
management and project management. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Framework for Supply
Chain Management, Code of Conduct for SCM Practitioners, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act and other Public service financial
legislative frameworks. Analytical and numerical skills; good report writing
skills, interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Computer skills in Microsoft
Office. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : To provide effective and efficient finance and procurement service. Ensure
compliance to Finance and Supply Chain Policies. Manage the implementation
of Central Supplier Database. Management of District Fleet. Managing District
Asset Register and safeguarding departmental assets. Coordinate and
manage physical movable and immovable asset verification process to test
existence of assets and completeness of the fixed asset register. Serve on Bid
Evaluation Committees. Managing Supply Chain functions in line with District
compliance on all Financial Transaction as per PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
DORA, Public Service Regulations, PPPFA, BBBEE, departmental policies,
procedures and related circulars. Compile and submit all required all required
administrative reports, serve on transverse task team as required. Ensure
compliance with Framework for SCM. Provide on-the-job training for
subordinates. Manage sub-ordinates in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/159 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET AND FACILITY REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/39
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District (Kwamhlanga)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 6 Bachelors’ Degree in Financial Management or relevant
qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA Minimum of three (3) years
related financial or Asset Management supervisory experience; Knowledge of
Supply Chain Management Framework, Supply Chain Management
acquisition practices, National Treasury Regulations and Policy Development.
Skills And Competencies: Computer literacy; People Management skills;
Project Management skills; Report writing skills; Planning and Organizing;
Innovation/Creativity; Presentation and facilitation; Analytical skills; Problem
solving and Decision-making skills; Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
communicate effectively in both written and verbal form. Proficiency in a wide
range of computer software, particularly MS Office Suite, Power Point, Excel
and MS Word). Financial analysis, risk assessment, asset register
management, and proficiency in asset management software and MS Office.
Organizational skills for managing assets, staff, and stakeholders effectively.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers. Monitor and review the
allocation of assets to asset holders. Oversee and review the monitoring of
assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures. Promote correct
implementation of sound asset management practices by informing, guiding
and advising departmental employees on asset management matters; and
contributing to the design and development of asset management systems,
policies, strategic and annual physical asset management planning. Supervise
employees to ensure sound physical asset management. Allocate duties and
do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead
supervisees regarding all aspects of the work. Manage performance, maintain
discipline among supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
117
ensure efficient and effective functioning. Address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/160 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS
(AUXILIARY) REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/40
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and a National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in
Human Resource Management/ Public Administration/ Public Management or
equivalent qualification as recognized by South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Minimum 3 years’ relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. Knowledge and experience
in pension administration and leave management will be an added advantage.
Skills And Competencies: Extensive knowledge and understanding of Human
Resource Management in the Public Service, employment legislation, and
Public Service Regulatory Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act). Proficiency in PERSAL system.
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills
(written and verbal). Ability to work in a team and independently. Report writing
and presentation skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative
ability. Ability to work in a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide Service Conditions and Employee Benefits in the District. Administer
Service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Quality assure documents
received for termination of service and housing and capture on PERSAL.
Complete and ensure correct submission of pension forms and all related
documents. Capture pension cases on GPAA system. Facilitate leave
administration processes and ensure correct codes are used on PERSAL and
E-leave Management System. Manage resources in the section. Provide
monthly/quarterly/annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/161 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS
(AUXILIARY) REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/41
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and a National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in
Human Resource Management/ Public Administration/ Public Management or
equivalent qualification as recognized by South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Minimum 3 years’ relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. Knowledge and experience
in pension administration and leave management will be an added advantage.
Skills And Competencies: Extensive knowledge and understanding of Human
Resource Management in the Public Service, employment legislation, and
Public Service Regulatory Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act). Proficiency in PERSAL system.
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills
(written and verbal). Ability to work in a team and independently. Report writing
and presentation skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative
ability. Ability to work in a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide Service Conditions and Employee Benefits in the District. Administer
Service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Quality assure documents
received for termination of service and housing and capture on PERSAL.
Complete and ensure correct submission of pension forms and all related
documents. Capture pension cases on GPAA system. Facilitate leave
administration processes and ensure correct codes are used on PERSAL and
118
E-leave Management System. Manage resources in the section. Provide
monthly/quarterly/annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/162 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/42
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/ Bachelor's
Degree in Human Resource Management / Public Administration / Public
Management. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience. Skills And
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Human Resource Management in the
Public Service and employment legislation i.e. Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Finance Management Act, Employment Equity Act. Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office package). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning
and organising skills. Knowledge and experience in pension administration and
leave management. Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide for Service conditions and Employee Benefits. Administer Service
Terminations. Quality assure documents received for termination of services.
Approve service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Complete and ensure
correct submission of pension forms including nominations forms. Follow-up
on all outstanding pension claims with Government Employees Pension Fund
(GEPF). Advice deceased employee's family to claim funeral benefit from
GEPF. Implement PERSAL transactions such as but not limited to housing,
payment of allowance etc. Facilitate Leave administration processes.
Implement leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used on
PERSAL and E-leave Management systems. Ensure that leave applications
comply with policies and prescripts before approving on PERSAL. Ensure
proper administration of incapacity leave in the province. Conduct leave audit.
Conduct calculation of leave pay-out and ensure proper implementation.
Manage resources in the Division. Provide monthly/quarterly/annual reports
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/163 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/43
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/ Bachelor's
Degree in Human Resource Management / Public Administration / Public
Management. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience. Skills And
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Human Resource Management in the
Public Service and employment legislation i.e. Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Finance Management Act, Employment Equity Act. Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office package). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning
and organising skills. Knowledge and experience in pension administration and
leave management. Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide for Service conditions and Employee Benefits in the District. Administer
Service Terminations. Quality assure documents received for termination of
services. Approve service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Complete and
ensure correct submission of pension forms including nominations forms.
Follow-up on all outstanding pension claims with Government Employees
Pension Fund (GEPF). Advice deceased employee's family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Implement PERSAL transactions such as but not limited to
housing, payment of allowance etc. Facilitate Leave administration processes.
Implement leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used on
PERSAL and E-leave Management systems. Ensure that leave applications
119
comply with policies and prescripts before approving on PERSAL. Ensure
proper administration of incapacity leave in the province. Conduct leave audit.
Conduct calculation of leave pay-out and ensure proper implementation.
Manage resources in the Division. Provide monthly/quarterly/annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/164 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/44
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/ Bachelor's
Degree in Human Resource Management / Public Administration / Public
Management. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience. Skills And
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Human Resource Management in the
Public Service and employment legislation i.e. Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Finance Management Act, Employment Equity Act. Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office package). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning
and organising skills. Knowledge and experience in pension administration and
leave management. Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide for Service conditions and Employee Benefits in the District. Administer
Service Terminations. Quality assure documents received for termination of
services. Approve service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Complete and
ensure correct submission of pension forms including nominations forms.
Follow-up on all outstanding pension claims with Government Employees
Pension Fund (GEPF). Advice deceased employee's family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Implement PERSAL transactions such as but not limited to
housing, payment of allowance etc. Facilitate Leave administration processes.
Implement leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used on
PERSAL and E-leave Management systems. Ensure that leave applications
comply with policies and prescripts before approving on PERSAL. Ensure
proper administration of incapacity leave in the province. Conduct leave audit.
Conduct calculation of leave pay-out and ensure proper implementation.
Manage resources in the Division. Provide monthly/quarterly/annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/165 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/45
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An Appropriate Degree/National diploma in HRM/ Public
Management/Administration At least 3 years' experience in Recruitment or HR
Administration. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and experience of the
recruitment and selection process Knowledge of Human Resource
Management, Labour and Employment legislations. Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA).
Computer literacy (Microsoft Office package), Communication skills (verbal
and written), Negotiation skills, Conflict Resolution skills, Planning and
Organising skills and Presentation skills. Personal and Salary Administration
System (PERSAL) Personnel Certificate. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide for the recruitment and selection process in the Department.
Coordinate and facilitate the advertisement of vacant positions. Obtain
approval for the appointment of the selection committees to fill vacant
positions. Ensure capturing of the Job applications received. Conduct
screening of job applications. Arrange shortlisting and take minutes of the
proceedings. Schedule interviews and invite shortlisted candidates for
interviews. Provide secretariat support during the shortlisting and interview
processes. Conduct reference checks. Ensure that background checks and
qualification verification are conducted. Submit the recommendation of the
selection committee to the delegated authority for approval. Provide feedback
to successful and unsuccessful candidates. Facilitate the implementation of
appointments, transfers and translations on PERSAL. Supervise the
120
performance of staff under the recruitment services. Compile monthly, quarterly
and annual reports. handle human resource administration enquiries to ensure
the correct implementation of human resource management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/166 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/46 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : An Appropriate Degree/National diploma in HRM/ Public
Management/Administration At least 3 years' experience in Recruitment and
HR Planning. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and experience of the
recruitment and selection process Knowledge of Human Resource
Management, Labour and Employment legislations. Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA).
Computer literacy (Microsoft Office package), Communication skills (verbal
and written), Negotiation skills, Conflict Resolution skills, Planning and
Organising skills and Presentation skills. Personal and Salary Administration
System (PERSAL) Personnel Certificate. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Maintain the establishment on PERSAL in the District. Provide for the
recruitment and selection process in the Department. Coordinate and facilitate
the advertisement of vacant positions. Ensure compliance with Employment
Equity targets during the recruitment and selection processes. Obtain approval
for the appointment of the selection committees to fill vacant positions. Ensure
capturing of the Job applications received. Conduct screening of job
applications. Arrange shortlisting and take minutes of the proceedings.
Schedule interviews and invite shortlisted candidates for interviews. Provide
secretariat support during the shortlisting and interview processes. Conduct
reference checks. Ensure that background checks and qualification verification
are conducted. Submit the recommendation of the selection committee to the
delegated authority for approval. Provide feedback to successful and
unsuccessful candidates. Facilitate the implementation of appointments,
transfers and translations on PERSAL. Conduct exit interviews and reports.
Supervise staff under recruitment and selection. Compile monthly, quarterly
and annual reports. Supervision of staff. Address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/167 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: PMDS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/47
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : An Appropriate Degree/National Diploma in HRM/ Public
Management/Administration and 3 years’ experience in HR environment. A
valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Extensive knowledge of
PERSAL. Sound and proven knowledge of PMDS procedures and processes.
A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Basic Condition of Employment Act, Employment
Equity Act etc. Good interpersonal skills, Good written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Analytical skills on
problem solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, Outlook & Word. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain PMDS practices. Render administrative functions
including being responsible for the overall coordination of PMDS in the District.
Maintain PMDS database. Receive and record all performance contracts, mid-
term and annual assessment reviews. Facilitate the moderation process.
Responsible for the implementation of Pay Progressions. Provide
administrative and advisory support services on PMDS related matters.
Responsible for PMDS records keeping Compile monthly, quarterly and annual
reports. Supervision of staff Performance management, address human
resource administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of
human resource management practices, inform, guide, and advise District staff
on PMDS matters to ensure the correct implementation of PMDS
121
practices/policies. Assist with preparation of reports on PMDS related issues
and statistics. Manage resources in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/168 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: TRANSVERSAL SERVICES REF
NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/48
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and a National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in
Industrial and Organisational Psychology/ Human Resource Management/
Public Management/ Management Assistant or equivalent qualification as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Minimum 3 years’
experience in Transversal environment. A valid driver’s licence. Skills And
Competencies: Extensive knowledge and understanding of Human Resource
Management in the Public Service, employment legislation, and Public Service
Regulatory Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Policy on Incapacity Leave and Ill-
Health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Personal
Protective Equipment Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Compensation
for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, SHEQ). Good interpersonal and
organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to
work in a team and independently. Report writing and presentation skills.
Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative, analytical and creative ability. Ability
to work in a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide transversal service and support to employees in the district. Facilitate
Employee Health and Wellness, Special Programmes, Occupational Health
and Safety, Gender Mainstreaming programmes and activities. Provide
monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/169 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER-DEMAND REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/49 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognized National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics / Public Management or equivalent with minimum 03
years work experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) of 2000
and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement prescripts
Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's license. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and commitment
to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal and written
communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation and
People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders at all
levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated, Ability
to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and in a
team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering excellent
results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : Establish and ensure that a procurement needs analysis is conducted. Compile
and consolidate the procurement and demand plan . Provide secretariat duties
to the bid committees and ensure compliance to relevant legislation. Facilitate
the sitting of bid committees. Compilate Specification documents or terms of
references. Conduct Market research. Compile quarterly reports on the
implementation of the Procurement plan. Facilitate the advertisement of bids
on the Provincial Bid Bulletin. Supervise employees to ensure an effective
logistics management services and undertake all administrative functions
required with regard to financial and HR administration. Ensure effective,
efficient and economic utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
122
POST 40/170 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER- CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/50
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognized National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management or other relevant qualification with a minimum 03 years work
experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) of 2000 and
Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement prescripts
Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's license. Skills And
Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and commitment
to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal and written
communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation and
People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders at all
levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated, Ability
to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and in a
team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering excellent
results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : To develop and update contract register, evaluate contract performance, Serve
as a secretariat of the Bid Adjudication Committee. Perform general contract
administrative duties, evaluate performance of SCM officials, Report on
equity/empowerment contracts, Safeguarding of contract related
documentation and files. Ensure that all active contracts are captured on
contract management systems. Ensure compliance with SCM policies and
applicable prescripts. Contribute to contract dispute resolutions through the
Contract Management Committee. Compile monthly and quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/171 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/51
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric Certificate and an appropriate bachelor’s degree / Diploma in Internal
Auditing / Risk Management, Accounting and Cost Management as recognized
by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). (1) year Internal audit
experience as an Internal Auditor. Registration with IIA (Institute for Internal
Auditors) will be an added advantage. Candidates must be in possession of
Valid Driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of Global Internal
Audit Standards (GIAS) of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), Internal Audit
framework and methodologies, Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No
1 of 1999) and Treasury Regulations. Interpersonal relations and
Communication skills (verbal and written), Computer Literacy, ability to work in
a team and under pressure. Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Evaluate the internal control systems, risk management and governance
process of the Department. Gather relevant legislations, acts, policies; develop
audit programme, execute the audits based on the audit programme; document
all findings raised and provide supporting evidence; compiling working paper
files and do filing and referencing Audit files. Conduct audits in compliance with
Global Internal Audit Standards (GIAS) of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA),
Perform follow up audits to performance whether all agreed rectification plans
have been implemented. Conduct ad hoc audits functions as requested.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/172 : STATE ACCOUNTANT EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/52 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate, and a National Diploma (NQF 6) Financial Accounting, Cost
and Management Accounting, Internal Auditing or relevant qualification within
the related field as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year relevant
experience in Financial Accounting/ Finance. Skills And Competencies:
123
knowledge of PFMA, National Treasure Regulations and other government
related prescripts. Good communication skills both verbal and written.
Computer literacy, knowledge of Microsoft word, PowerPoint and excel.
Knowledge of Logis and BAS. Problem solving and analysis. client orientation
and customer services. Accountability and ethical conduct. Valid drivers
licence.
DUTIES : Receiving/ checking/ recording of payment of all authentic invoices and sundry
payments, process payments and ensuring that they are paid within 30 days
on Logis and BAS systems. Prepare payment list/ monthly reports creditors
reconciliation/ print reports on BAS. Prevent and report unauthorized/ irregular/
wasteful/ fruitless expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/173 : STATE ACCOUNTANT BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/53
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/ Grade 12 plus Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or
equivalent qualifications as recognized by South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). A qualification in Financial Management will be an added
advantage. At least a minimum of 2 years experience in the same or related
field. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework governing Public Service, PFMA, National Treasury MTEF
guidelines and Treasury Regulations. Financial Management communication,
Reporting procedures, Computer Literacy. Knowledge of BAS will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide budget compliance support to management. Capturing of budget
records, transfers and virements. Prepare budget reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/174 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TRANSPORT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/54
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a senior certificate (minimum)
and a valid driver’s license At least a minimum of three (3) years of experience
in Finance environment or Transport Management. Skills And Competencies:
Good computer skills (MS Office, Excel and PowerPoint). Knowledge of
Human Resource Management, Labour legislation and sound knowledge of
Transport Circulars and Government Motor Transport Handbook and
Subsidized Motor Transport Handbook. Good interpersonal communication
skills, organizational skills and the ability to function under pressure and as part
of a team. Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Coordinate operations and administrative service of the Transport Section.
Provide a support function to the supervisor regarding prevention and misuse
of Government Motor Transport and fraud investigation, ensure that vehicles
are maintained (roadworthy), clean, regularly serviced and inspected).
Compiling and submitting monthly reports for GG-vehicles and verifying GG
Vehicles, analyzing tracking reports to identify, confirm report possible fraud
and misuse cases. Administer and monitor service contracts (e.g., vehicle
maintenance), ensuring compliance and applying penalties for non-
performance. Provide general administrative support, attend meetings,
conduct site visits, and respond to internal and external queries. Supervision
of staff, training of staff, management of leave and performance, and ensure
compliance with HR policies and disciplinary procedures. Liaise with districts
regarding transport issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/175 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER MOVABLE ASSETS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/55 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
124
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a senior certificate (minimum)
and a valid driver’s license. At least a minimum of three (3) years of experience
in the asset management environment in particular movable assets. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Modified Cash Standard, Accounting
Manual for Departments & other relevant prescripts. Able to work under
pressure and must be willing to travel across the province. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Knowledge of Microsoft word,
PowerPoint and excel. Knowledge of LOGIS and BAS systems. Problem
solving analyses. People and diversity management. Client orientation and
customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Conduct movable asset verification process to test existence of assets and
completeness of the fixed asset register. Request documents for monthly
reconciliations against the trial balance and the asset register. Compile
necessary journals and ensure that they are correctly posted on the accounting
system. Update the FAR of the department with additions, asset movements,
disposals, asset conditions, transfers and donations. Analyse every entry and
update made on the FAR. Barcoding of all assets. Enforce implementation of
movable asset policies and procedures by users. Liaise with security
management to ensure that lost/stolen assets are listed on the loss register of
the department. Identify and enlist all movable assets due for disposal. Ensure
that inventory sheets are pasted and signed for by relevant custodians. Liaise
with districts regarding movable asset issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/176 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER DEMAN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/56 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognised National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics/ Public Management or equivalent with a minimum 02
years work experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) of 2000
and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement prescripts.
Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's licence. minimum
2-year relevant work experience in Supply Chain Management Environment.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and
commitment and customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills,
Verbal and written communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution,
Facilitation and People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with
stakeholders at all levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly
motivated, Ability to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work
independently and in a team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst
delivering excellent results. High Accountability and ethical conduct
competencies.
DUTIES : Establish and ensure that a procurement needs analysis is conducted.
Coordinate the compilation of the procurement and demand plan. Provide
secretariat duties to the bid committees and ensure compliance to relevant
legislation. Conduct Market Research, Facilitate the sitting of bid committees.
Compilation of the Specification documents. Compile quarterly reports on the
Procurement plan. Facilitate the advertisement of bids on the Provincial Bid
Bulletin.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/177 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/57 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognized National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics/ Public Management or equivalent with minimum 02
125
years work experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) of 2000
and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement prescripts
Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's license. Skills And
Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and commitment
to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal and written
communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation and
People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders at all
levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated, Ability
to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and in a
team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering excellent
results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : Responsible for receiving specifications and sourcing quotations. Ensure the
utilization of CSD in the bid/quotation processes. To provide technical
assistance to service providers on Central Supplier Database. Serve as Bid
secretariat and provide guidance to the committee members. Ensure
compliance with SCM policies and applicable prescripts. compile monthly
reports. Administer opening and closing of bids. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders. Ensure that integrity of all procurement functions are
maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/178 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER LOGISTICS REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/58
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a recognized National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/ Logistics / Purchasing or equivalent qualification with minimum
02 years work experience in Supply Chain Management. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) of 2000
and Preferential Procurement Regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act and other relevant procurement prescripts
Knowledge of BAS, Logis and BPA systems. A valid driver's license. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills and commitment
to customer care. Analytical thinking, Report writing skills, Verbal and written
communication. Problem solving and conflict resolution, Facilitation and
People Management Skills coupled with ability to deal with stakeholders at all
levels. Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality. Highly motivated, Ability
to work under pressure, pay attention to detail, work independently and in a
team. Hardworking. Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst delivering excellent
results. High Accountability and ethical conduct competencies.
DUTIES : Receive and register purchase requests/requisitions for procurement of goods
and services. Check for compliance on requisitions and advise end-users on
correct compilation and packaging of purchase requests. Generate and issue
purchase orders. Capture purchase order data on the Invoice Tracking System.
Compile weekly commitment/accruals reports and monthly purchase order-
invoice reconciliation reports. Ensure proper filling of purchase vouchers.
Ensure effective and efficient application of procurement policies and
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/179 : RISK OFFICER REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/59
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor's Degree / National Diploma (NQF 6) in Risk or Integrity Management
/Internal Audit/ Accounting/ Public Finance/Public Management. 1-3 years'
relevant experience in Risk Management services. Integrity/ Ethics
Management is an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations, Financial
Management Principles, Financial Accounting Principles, Public Service Act,
126
Public Service Regulations, BAS system. Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
75 of 1997 and Provincial Treasury Directives. Possess skills on policy
management, communication (verbal and written), presentation, resource
management, conflict resolution, customer and quality management, Problem
solving and decision making. Ability to work under pressure. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Promote risk management by undertaking initiatives aimed at creating and
enhancing RM. Facilitate the implementation of risk management norms and
standards in the department. Facilitate risk assessment exercises for different
programs within the department. Monitor and report on various aspects of Risk
Management. Assist the RMC, management and other officials by providing
support on Risk Management. Facilitate the applications for Remunerative
Work Outside the Public Service (RWOPS). Facilitate the processes of
Financial Disclosures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/180 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER RECRUITMENT SERVICES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/60
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Appropriate NQF level 06
Degree/National diploma in HRM/ Public Management/Administration or
related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years' experience in
human resource administration. Experience within recruitment services
environment will be an added advantage. Skills And Competencies: Extensive
knowledge of PERSAL with at least two PERSAL certificates. Good
understanding and functional knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Basic condition of Employment Act and other Public
Service Directives. Computer literacy particularly MS Excel, outlook, word and
others. Good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication
skills. Problem solving and analytical skills. Decision making skills. Willingness
to work extended hours. A valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices in relation to
recruitment and selection processes, secretariat functions during interviews,
vetting of candidates, appointments, transfers, probation confirmation.
facilitate approval for the appointment of the selection committees. Ensure
profiling of the Job applications received. Conduct screening of job
applications. Arrange shortlisting and take minutes of the proceedings.
Schedule interviews and invite shortlisted candidates for interviews. Provide
secretariat support during the shortlisting and interview processes. Conduct
reference checks. Ensure that background checks and qualification verification
are conducted. Submit the recommendation of the selection committee to the
delegated authority for approval. Provide feedback to successful and
unsuccessful candidates. Facilitate the implementation of appointments,
transfers and translations on PERSAL. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual
reports. Address human resource administration enquiries to ensure the
correct implementation of human resource management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/181 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/61
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management. A
minimum of two (2) years' relevant experience. Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge of Human Resource Management in the Public Service and
employment legislation i.e. Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Employment Equity Act. Policy on Incapacity Leave and Ill-
health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office
package). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning and organising
127
skills. Knowledge and experience in pension administration and leave
management. Introduction to PERSAL Management Certificate. A valid driver's
licence.
DUTIES : Provide for Service conditions and Employee Benefits. Administer Service
Terminations. Capture service terminations on PERSAL timeously. Complete
and ensure correct submission of pension forms including nominations forms.
Follow-up on all outstanding pension claims with Government Employees
Pension Fund (GEPF). Advice deceased employee's family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Capture transactions such as but not limited to housing,
payment of allowance etc. Administer leave matters. Implement leave
transactions and ensure that correct codes are used on PERSAL and E-leave
Management systems. Ensure that leave applications comply with policies and
prescripts. Ensure proper administration of incapacity leave
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/182 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER PMDS REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/62
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Appropriate Degree/National diploma in
HRM/ Public Management/Administration. A minimum of 2 years' experience
in Performance Management and Development System (PMDS). Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of PERSAL. Sound and proven knowledge of
PMDS procedures and processes. A Good understanding and Functional
knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic
Condition of Employment Act, Employment Equity Act etc. Good interpersonal
skills, Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under
pressure. Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making and
organizational skills. Computer literacy particularly MS, Excel, Outlook & Word.
A valid driver's license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain PMDS practices. Render administrative functions
including being responsible for the overall coordination of PMDS. Maintain
PMDS database. Receive and record all performance contracts, mid-term and
annual assessments. Facilitate the moderation process. Responsible for the
implementation of Pay Progression. Provide administrative and advisory
support services on PMDS related matters. Responsible for PMDS records
keeping Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Respond to PMDS
related enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of the system Guide and
advice Department’s employees on PMDS matters to enhance the correct
implementation of PMDS practices/policies. Assist with preparation of reports
on PMDS related issues and statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/183 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER RECORDS AND AUXILIARY REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/63
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Human Resource Management, Public Management Diploma or equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in administrative support
services will be added as advantage. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of
Public Service legislation frameworks, policies and processes. Good
interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Advanced computer literacy. PERSAL System. Ability to work in a team
and independently. Good personal and organisational skills. Knowledge of
Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Render an effective filing and records management service in the district.
Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondences. Process documents for archiving and disposal. Reporting
the maintenance of photocopying machines and switchboard system. Prepare
request memos for ordering of stationery, protective clothing and cleaning
materials within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
128
POST 40/184 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER RECORDS AND OHS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/64
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and a National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in
Records Management/ Information Science/ Library Science or equivalent
qualification as recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Minimum 2 years’ relevant experience. A valid driver’s license. Any certificate
in records or information management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, understanding, and any certificate in Occupational Health and
Safety will also be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
and understanding of Records and Information Management and data
protection in the Public Service. Public Service Regulatory Frameworks and
Records Management Framework (Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Policy on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement, Promotion of Access to Information
Act, Personal Protective Equipment Act, National Archives and Records
Service Act, Records Other Than Correspondence, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act). Good
interpersonal and organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Ability to handle confidential information discreetly. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Assist in creating, classifying, and records management services in the district.
Ensure security and integrity of all records. Ensure records are accurately filed
and easily retrieved. Ensure records management in the district complies with
organizational and legal policies. Assist officials on proper handling and
documentation procedures. Provide health and safe workplace environment
and risk mitigation. Assist in Occupational Health and Safety issues and
compliance in the district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/185 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE AND SALARY) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/66
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree, in Accounting, Financial Management, or
relevant field. At least 2 years of experience in the relevant financial field. Skills
And Competencies: Demonstrable competency in working Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and
Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act, Treasury Regulations, and other
government related legislations. Understanding of the Public Finances in the
public sector. Good Communication, liaison, and presentation skills.
Knowledge of LOGIS System, PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including
Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work
under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritising skills. Problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management of the payroll and expenditure processes,
including processing salaries, authorizing financial transactions, and
monitoring spending against the budget. Key responsibilities involve using
systems like PERSAL and BAS, ensuring compliance with the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations, and clearing suspense accounts before month-end
closure. Receiving, checking, recording of payment vouchers and the verify
authenticity of all documentation attached. Complete payment advice. Verifying
of compliance in terms of attachments to all payment vouchers and processing
of payment for goods and services on Logis within 30 days. Compile payment
schedules. Facilitate creditor’s reconciliations and compile creditors
reconciliation repots on monthly basis. Coordinate and facilitate payroll
management, Collect and distribute payrolls to pay points Managers.
Administer Subsistence & Travell claims. Filling and retrieval of payment
vouchers for audit. Compile quarterly and annual accrual reports. Attend to
queries from internal and external clients. Print BAS reports and distribute to
the relevant managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
129
POST 40/186 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE AND SALARY) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/67 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree, in Accounting, Financial Management, or
relevant field. At least 2 years of experience in the relevant financial field. Skills
And Competencies: Demonstrable competency in working Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and
Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act, Treasury Regulations, and other
government related legislations. Understanding of the Public Finances in the
public sector. Good Communication, liaison, and presentation skills.
Knowledge of LOGIS System, PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including
Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work
under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritising skills. Problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management of the payroll and expenditure processes,
including processing salaries, authorizing financial transactions, and
monitoring spending against the budget. Key responsibilities involve using
systems like PERSAL and BAS, ensuring compliance with the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations, and clearing suspense accounts before month-end
closure. Receiving, checking, recording of payment vouchers and the verify
authenticity of all documentation attached. Complete payment advice. Verifying
of compliance in terms of attachments to all payment vouchers and processing
of payment for goods and services on Logis within 30 days. Compile payment
schedules. Facilitate creditor’s reconciliations and compile creditors
reconciliation repots on monthly basis. Coordinate and facilitate payroll
management, Collect and distribute payrolls to pay points Managers.
Administer Subsistence & Travell claims. Filling and retrieval of payment
vouchers for audit. Compile quarterly and annual accrual reports. Attend to
queries from internal and external clients. Print BAS reports and distribute to
the relevant managers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/187 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE AND SALARY) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/68 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree, in Accounting, Financial Management, or
relevant field. At least 2 years of experience in the relevant financial field. Skills
And Competencies: Demonstrable competency in working Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and
Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act, Treasury Regulations, and other
government related legislations. Understanding of the Public Finances in the
public sector. Good Communication, liaison, and presentation skills.
Knowledge of LOGIS System, PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including
Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work
under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritising skills. Problem
solving and decision-making.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management of the payroll and expenditure processes,
including processing salaries, authorizing financial transactions, and
monitoring spending against the budget. Key responsibilities involve using
systems like PERSAL and BAS, ensuring compliance with the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations, and clearing suspense accounts before month-end
closure. Receiving, checking, recording of payment vouchers and the verify
authenticity of all documentation attached. Complete payment advice. Verifying
of compliance in terms of attachments to all payment vouchers and processing
of payment for goods and services on Logis within 30 days. Compile payment
schedules. Facilitate creditor’s reconciliations and compile creditors
reconciliation repots on monthly basis. Coordinate and facilitate payroll
management, Collect and distribute payrolls to pay points Managers.
Administer Subsistence & Travell claims. Filling and retrieval of payment
vouchers for audit. Compile quarterly and annual accrual reports. Attend to
130
queries from internal and external clients. Print BAS reports and distribute to
the relevant managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/188 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER- SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/69 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognized National Diploma/ Bachelor's
degree and /or postgraduate in Finance or related field. A valid driver’s licence.
Minimum of 3 Years relevant experience in a Financial Accounting or related
field knowledge of Financial Management. Skills And Competencies: Sound
communication (written and verbal) skills and competencies. Knowledge of
procurement processes. Knowledge of transversal systems (LOGIS, BAS and
have at one year working on LOGIS and BAS to interpret and implement
policies. Sound knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), and
financial prescripts. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage the procurement of goods and services. Processing requisitions and
purchase orders, managing suppliers, supplier database, and supporting
procurement activities like sourcing quotes and managing bids, logistics, such
as receiving, verifying, and preparation of tender /bid documents, and ensure
SCM compliance and accurate reporting, receiving invoices BPA and LOGIS
system. Ensure all SCM activities comply with relevant legislation and policies
Compile and submit reports on purchase requisitions, purchase orders, and
other SCM data. Follow up on outstanding invoices and ensure timely payment.
Respond to queries from internal and external clients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/189 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER- SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/70
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification, such as a National Diploma or Degree, in
Accounting, Financial Management, or a equivalent field. NQF Level: This
qualification must be at a National Qualifications Framework (NQF) level 6 or
higher. At least 2 years of experience in a relevant financial role is generally
required. Skills And Competencies: A combination of hard and soft skills,
including strong communication, numerical, and computer literacy, along with
planning, problem-solving, and organizational abilities. Essential competencies
also involve a high level of attention to detail, adaptability, and the ability to
manage and process administrative tasks related to procurement, logistics,
and record-keeping.
DUTIES : Order processing: Receive, manage, and process purchase requisitions,
create purchase orders, and track their status. Supplier management. Supplier
management: Communicate with suppliers to place orders, expedite deliveries,
and resolve issues with overdue or non-compliant goods. Documentation and
record-keeping: Maintain accurate and organized records of all supply chain
activities, including purchase orders, contracts, and supplier information.
Tender and bid support: Assist in the preparation of tender documents, manage
bid opening and evaluation processes, and ensure compliance with
procurement policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/190 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER- SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/71 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification, such as a National Diploma or Degree, in
Accounting, Financial Management, or a equivalent field. NQF Level: This
qualification must be at a National Qualifications Framework (NQF) level 6 or
higher. At least 2 years of experience in a relevant financial role is generally
required. Skills And Competencies: A combination of hard and soft skills,
including strong communication, numerical, and computer literacy, along with
planning, problem-solving, and organizational abilities. Essential competencies
131
also involve a high level of attention to detail, adaptability, and the ability to
manage and process administrative tasks related to procurement, logistics,
and record-keeping.
DUTIES : Order processing: Receive, manage, and process purchase requisitions,
create purchase orders, and track their status. Supplier management. Supplier
management: Communicate with suppliers to place orders, expedite deliveries,
and resolve issues with overdue or non-compliant goods. Documentation and
record-keeping: Maintain accurate and organized records of all supply chain
activities, including purchase orders, contracts, and supplier information.
Tender and bid support: Assist in the preparation of tender documents, manage
bid opening and evaluation processes, and ensure compliance with
procurement policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/191 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: INVENTORY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/72
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification, such as a National Diploma or Degree, in
Accounting, Financial Management, or a equivalent field. NQF Level: This
qualification must be at a National Qualifications Framework (NQF) level 6 or
higher. At least 2 years of experience in a relevant financial role is generally
required. Skills And Competencies: Good communications and interpersonal
skills, Computer Literacy (Excel, Power Point and MS Word). Ability to work
under pressure, sense of responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Conducting monthly inventory stock count, in all the Nkangala District
veterinary clinics. Updating Bid cards where the inventory is stored. Ensuring
that the storage where inventory items are stored is in line with FIFO (First in
first out). Compiling of stock count reports as a result of stock count. Updating
of inventory register by issuing of the used or expired medicines. Noting
inventory supplies that are due for disposal and be disposed. Administering
theft and losses of inventory items. Provide support for the implementation and
maintenance of inventory management systems and processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/192 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (BUDGET AND REVENUE) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/74
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 plus a recognized 3-year National Diploma or Degree in
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Cost and Management Accounting or
relevant qualification, driver's license. 2-3 years relevant work experience in
financial management environment. Skills And Competencies: Demonstrable
competency in working Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act,
Treasury Regulations, and other government related legislations.
Understanding of the Public Finances in the public sector. Good
Communication, liaison, and presentation skills. Knowledge of LOGIS System,
PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritizing skills. Problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Manage revenue collections. Reconciliation of revenue collected. Conduct
revenue inspections and training on cashiers. Administer the district budget
and advise management on budget controls. Managing financial records,
preparing financial statements and reports, ensuring compliance with
regulations like (PMFA), budget preparation and monitoring expenditure to
prevent waste. Generate management reports on expenditure. Record reports
on fruitless, wasteful and irregular expenditures. Manage revenue collection,
reconciling revenue. Ensure all revenue management activities comply with
relevant legislation. Perform cashier functions. Collecting receipts and deposit
from cashiers. Daily deposits and capturing of receipts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
132
POST 40/193 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (BUDGET AND REVENUE) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/75 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 plus a recognized 3-year National Diploma or Degree in
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Cost and Management Accounting or
relevant qualification, driver's license. 2-3 years relevant work experience in
financial management environment. Skills And Competencies: Demonstrable
competency in working Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act,
Treasury Regulations, and other government related legislations.
Understanding of the Public Finances in the public sector. Good
Communication, liaison, and presentation skills. Knowledge of LOGIS System,
PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritizing skills. Problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Manage revenue collections. Reconciliation of revenue collected. Conduct
revenue inspections and training on cashiers. Administer the district budget
and advise management on budget controls. Managing financial records,
preparing financial statements and reports, ensuring compliance with
regulations like (PMFA), budget preparation and monitoring expenditure to
prevent waste. Generate management reports on expenditure. Record reports
on fruitless, wasteful and irregular expenditures. Manage revenue collection,
reconciling revenue. Ensure all revenue management activities comply with
relevant legislation. Perform cashier functions. Collecting receipts and deposit
from cashiers. Daily deposits and capturing of receipts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/194 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (BUDGET AND REVENUE) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/76
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 plus a recognized 3-year National Diploma or Degree in
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Cost and Management Accounting or
relevant qualification, driver's license. 2-3 years relevant work experience in
financial management environment. Skills And Competencies: Demonstrable
competency in working Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of Legislation and Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act,
Treasury Regulations, and other government related legislations.
Understanding of the Public Finances in the public sector. Good
Communication, liaison, and presentation skills. Knowledge of LOGIS System,
PERSAL, BAS. Computer literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Willingness to travel. Good administration skills. People
management and empowerment. Planning and prioritizing skills. Problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Manage revenue collections. Reconciliation of revenue collected. Conduct
revenue inspections and training on cashiers. Administer the district budget
and advise management on budget controls. Managing financial records,
preparing financial statements and reports, ensuring compliance with
regulations like (PMFA), budget preparation and monitoring expenditure to
prevent waste. Generate management reports on expenditure. Record reports
on fruitless, wasteful and irregular expenditures. Manage revenue collection,
reconciling revenue. Ensure all revenue management activities comply with
relevant legislation. Perform cashier functions. Collecting receipts and deposit
from cashiers. Daily deposits and capturing of receipts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
POST 40/195 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TRANSPORT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/77
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni North District
133
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Transport / Logistics Management or related field (NQF
Level 6). Valid drivers' license (code 8 or higher) Minimum 1-2 years of
experience in transport administration or logistics. Skills and Competencies:
Sound knowledge of Transport Circulars and Government Motor Transport
Handbook and Subsidized Motor Transport Handbook. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Modified Cash Standard, Accounting Manual for Departments &
other relevant prescripts. Able to work under pressure and must be willing to
travel across the province. Good communication skills both verbal and written.
Knowledge of Microsoft word, PowerPoint and excel. Knowledge of LOGIS and
BAS systems. Problem solving analyses. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Vehicle management: Maintain accurate records of departmental vehicles,
including logbooks, maintenance schedules, and fuel consumption. Ensure
vehicles are properly serviced, maintained and repaired. Transport
Coordination: Coordinate transport for officials, guests, and employees.
Arrange vehicle allocations, scheduling and routing. Driver Management:
Supervise and monitor drivers’ performance, ensuring compliance with
departmental policies and procedures. Maintain records of drivers' licenses,
training and performance evaluations. Fuel Management: monitor and control
fuel consumption, ensuring accurate recording and reporting. Identify areas for
fuel cost savings and implement recommendations. Administrative tasks:
Provide administrative support to the transport section, including data
capturing, filing and record-keeping. Respond to queries and provide
information on transport-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 40/196 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TRANSPORT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/78
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Transport / Logistics Management or related field (NQF
Level 6). Valid drivers' license (code 8 or higher) Minimum 1-2 years of
experience in transport administration or logistics. Skills and Competencies:
Sound knowledge of Transport Circulars and Government Motor Transport
Handbook and Subsidized Motor Transport Handbook. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Modified Cash Standard, Accounting Manual for Departments &
other relevant prescripts. Able to work under pressure and must be willing to
travel across the province. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Knowledge of Microsoft word, PowerPoint and excel. Knowledge of
LOGIS and BAS systems. Problem solving analyses. People and diversity
management. Client orientation and customer focus. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Vehicle management: Maintain accurate records of departmental vehicles,
including logbooks, maintenance schedules, and fuel consumption. Ensure
vehicles are properly serviced, maintained and repaired. Transport
Coordination: Coordinate transport for officials, guests, and employees.
Arrange vehicle allocations, scheduling and routing. Driver Management:
Supervise and monitor drivers’ performance, ensuring compliance with
departmental policies and procedures. Maintain records of drivers' licenses,
training and performance evaluations. Fuel Management: monitor and control
fuel consumption, ensuring accurate recording and reporting. Identify areas for
fuel cost savings and implement recommendations. Administrative tasks:
Provide administrative support to the transport section, including data
capturing, filing and record-keeping. Respond to queries and provide
information on transport-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 630 1770
POST 40/197 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER DEMAND AND ACQUISITION REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/79 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, National diploma NQF6 in Business management,
business administration, financial/management accounting, supply chain
management and any financial related 3 years diploma, driver's license. 2 to 3
years relevant work experience in financial management environment. Skills
134
And Competencies: Excellent verbal and written communication to interact with
colleagues, suppliers, and clients. Strong organizational and planning abilities
to manage multiple tasks and deadlines. Attention to detail: Meticulous focus
on accuracy to avoid errors in orders, documentation, and data entry. Ability to
identify and resolve issues that arise within the supply chain, such as
discrepancies or delays. Ability to work collaboratively with other team
members to achieve common goals. Flexibility to handle changing needs and
demands in a fast-paced environment. Computer proficiency: Ability to use
Microsoft Office (especially Excel), supply chain management (SCM) software,
and data entry systems. Efficiently managing time to meet strict deadlines and
a high workload.
DUTIES : Processing requisitions and purchase orders, managing suppliers, supplier
database, and supporting procurement activities like sourcing quotes and
managing bids, logistics, such as receiving, verifying, and preparation of tender
/bid documents, and ensure SCM compliance and accurate reporting, receiving
invoices BPA and LOGIS system. Ensure all SCM activities comply with
relevant legislation and policies Compile and submit reports on purchase
requisitions, purchase orders, and other SCM data. Follow up on outstanding
invoices and ensure timely payment. Respond to queries from internal and
external clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R.S Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 40/198 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER (GRAPHIC DESIGNER) REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/80
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and National Diploma in Graphic Design or equivalent
qualification. Graphic Design experience. A portfolio of previous publications
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of design software’s, such as Adobe
Creative Suite: Photoshop, Adobe Creative Suite: Illustrator, Adobe Creative
SuiteInDesign, Corel Draw, and Microsoft Office. Skills And Competencies:
Knowledge of prescripts applicable in Public Service. Strong written and verbal
communication, and media relations expertise. Computer literacy, ability to
work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for production of departmental
publications, including booklets, presentations and promotional material.
Maintain departmental corporate image and identity on all documents.
Multimedia design and production. Provide high quality videos for broadcasting
in digital platforms. Provide audio-visual services to departmental events.
Archiving pictures, footage and videos on audio-visual library.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/199 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/81 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus NQF level 06 or equivalent qualification in
records management or related field. A valid drivers license will be an added
advantage. Skills And Competencies: Good verbal and written communication
skills, knowledge of the National Archives and Records Services Act and MISS.
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Knowledge of the records
management policy, procedures and manuals. Knowledge of legislative
framework governing records management such as Promotion of Access to
Information Act etc, will serve as advantage.
DUTIES : Responsible for safekeeping of current, closed and terminated departmental
records. Filing and retrieval of records as per the National Archives Act and
other prescripts. Ensure compliance with all relevant acts. Develop and
manage all registers utilized by registry. Ensure proper control and custody of
the records. Render efficient and effective quality registry services to internal
and external clients. Implement records management policy and procedures.
Ensure the use of the file plan, indexing and referencing of documents by all
personnel before filing. Provide recommendations for archiving or disposal of
files on due dates. Handling incoming and outgoing mail. Render effective filing
and record management service. Assist in compiling report regarding records
management.
135
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/200 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/82
Directorate: HRM& D
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support services will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc. Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/201 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/83
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support services will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc.). Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/202 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/84
Directorate: Labour Relations
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support services will be an added advantage. Skills
And Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
136
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc.). Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/203 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/85
Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support services will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc.). Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 40/204 : MESSENGER DRIVER REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/87
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni South District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 /ABET with a minimum of 2 years driving experience. A valid drivers
license and a valid PDP. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Skills And
Competencies: Good communication skills. Should be able to read and write.
Ability and willingness to work on weekends and to work extended hours as
and when required. Ability to drive different types of vehicles for various
activities e.g transportation of staff, goods, equipment and documents.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicle to transport passengers and deliver other
items such as mail and documents. Do routine maintenance on the allocated
vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and prescribed
records and log books with regard to the vehicle and the goods handled.
Render messenger services in the related items to ensure the timeous
distribution of documents. Render a photocopying, printing and scanning
services to. Register incoming and outgoing mails and ensure records of
receipts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
137
Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY & LIAISON
The Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison Mpumalanga Province invites applications
for the Basic Traffic Officers Diploma Learnership which seeks to capacitate youth residing in
Mpumalanga with knowledge and skills in Traffic Law Enforcement. All races are encouraged to apply
and shall meet the following requirements:
APPLICATIONS : https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/fVe3u8c6yS
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : NB: The traffic training will be conducted at the Mpumalanga Traffic Training
College at Mkhuhlu (Calcutta) in the Bushbuckridge Local Municipality. The
Department will conduct personnel suitability checks for selected candidates
on the following key areas: qualification verifications, criminal records checks,
citizenship, financial records checks and driving license. Successful
candidates will be expected to enter into a 12 month contract with the
Department and on completion; learners will receive a Diploma in Basic Traffic
Officer: NQF 4. It is the Departments’ intention to promote presentively (race,
gender, and disability) Applications on the new Z83 form shall be fully
completed via e-recruitment system through a link provided and upload a
detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents shall be submitted by shortlisted candidates only on or before the
day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3)
reference persons and their contacts, failure to provide accurate information
on a job application as well as incomplete information will result in a
disqualification. Requirements stated on the advertised posts are minimum
inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for shortlisting will depend on the
proficiency of the applications received. Communication will be done to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful.
LEARNERSHIP PROGRAMME 2025 TO 2026
(12 Months Contract)
OTHER POST
POST 40/205 : LEARNERSHIP PROGRAMME 2025/26: BASIC TRAFFIC OFFICERS
DIPLOMA REF NO: DCSSL/09/25
STIPEND : R5000.00 per month
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Traffic Training College at Mkhuhlu (Calcutta) in the
Bushbuckridge Local Municipality.
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification of Grade 12 Certificate. At least a Code B
driving license. South African citizen. No criminal record. Fit and proper
(Medical assessment will be conducted for shortlisted candidates as proof for
strenuous exercises). Candidates will be subjected to driving and competency
tests.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: (013) 766 4019 or Ms S Masango Tel No: (017) 811
1433
Ms N Mathebula Tel No: (013) 766 9152 or Ms A Seku Tel No: (013) 766 4905.
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS.
The Mpumalanga Department of Co-Operative Governance, Human Settlements & Traditional Affairs is an
equal opportunity department and the Department’s intention is to promote equity through the filling of
this post.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted to: The Director: Human Resource Management
and Development, Department of Co-operative Governance, Human
Settlements and Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X11328, Mbombela, 1200. Or
Email to: Coghstarecruitment@mpg.gov.za Hand delivered to: Rhino Building
extension 2 No.7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department, accompanied by recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of all qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and
138
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department of Co-operative Governance,
Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the
underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s Equity Plan.
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected
to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Creditworthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); Qualification
verification and Pre-Entry Assessment as well as Competency Assessment.
Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 40/206 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (ELECTRICAL) REF NO:
COGHSTA/02
(24 Months Contract)
(Municipal Infrastructure)
Re-adverts, Please note that the post was advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 18 of 2025, and candidates who previously applied need to
re-apply.
SALARY : R879 342 – R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD package). Offer will be
based on proven years of experience.
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a Degree (B Eng / BSC Eng) in Electrical Engineering
or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in local
government within the infrastructure planning and development environment.
Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of South Africa as a
Professional Engineer. A valid Driver’s License. Skills and Competencies:
Good interpersonal relations, Presentation and facilitation skills. Competent in
Strategic Management and Leadership Capabilities, Financial Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analytical skills, People
Management and Stakeholder Management, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus, Honest and Integrity. Knowledge of Project and Programme Monitoring.
Knowledge of infrastructure development and programme management.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Good communication skills (verbal and
written) Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in evaluating business plans and technical reports
for the proposed electrification projects. Support municipalities and facilitate
municipal energy infrastructure development. Monitor and support
municipalities with implementation of electrification programme. Ensure the
management of infrastructure finance. Co-ordinate energy services planning.
Provide technical support with development and implementation of energy
plans, legislative frameworks and strategies. Support municipalities with
coordination of electricity infrastructure projects. Assess the functionality of
electricity infrastructure and address areas of intervention. Conduct site
visits/meetings to ensure compliance with business plans conditions. Provide
monthly and quarterly performance reports on infrastructure related.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
139
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/207 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/549 (X99 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Various Facilities in the Province:
26 Tertiary & Regional Hospitals
26 Ehlanzeni Facilities
30 Nkangala Facilities
22 Gert Sibande Facilities)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
140
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/208 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-A7): MCWYH REF NO:
MPDOH/OCT/25/50
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R693 096 - R813 732 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A
minimum of eight (8) years of appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. A Diploma / Degree
in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of the legislative and Policy framework as well as the current
transformation strategies in the Public Sector. Good communication, conflict
management and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Delegate, Supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate quality nursing care Initiate and participate in
health promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care Develop/establish and maintain
constructive working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards, policies, PMDS, procedures, Contingency
and Strategic Plans Monitor and ensure proper utilization of human, financial
and physical resources Quality management including infection control,
information management and clinical audits Participate in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures Manage human resources. Monitor and ensure proper utilization
of financial and physical resources. Implement all relevant prescripts Manage
and monitor proper utilization of human financial and material resources
Manage the budget according to PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/209 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GR1 (PN-A5): OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/51
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Thembisile Hani Sub-district (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of seven (7) years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Experience in infection
control and prevention. Training in infection control will be an added advantage.
Computer literacy. Understanding of infection control policy, good interpersonal
skills, ability to plan and organize, presentation skills, conflict management
skills, people management. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate Occupational Health programme in the Sub-District and liaise with
Districts and other sectors on issues related to the programme. Develop
141
strategic plans, policies and protocols on implementation of Occupational
Health programme. Support Sub Districts with the implementation of national
and provincial policies. Render technical support, advice and capacity building
of personnel. Manage the Occupational Health services in the Sub-District.
Support the implementation of norms and standard for Occupational Health
programme. Manage the programmes finances and budget. Monitor and
evaluate the impact of the programme. Compile reports. Conduct initial,
Periodic and Exit examinations to employees in health facilities. Screen all
employees who come for medical surveillance for hypertension, diabetic, TB,
HIV and mental health. Conduct health and awareness events to capacitate
employees with knowledge. Immunize employees against Hepatitis B, and Flu
infections yearly. Provide post exposure prophylaxis to employees who had
exposure incident by doing base line, two weeks, six weeks and three months’
blood monitoring. Counsel employees on occupational and personal stressful
problems when required. Conduct home/hospital visits to give emotional
support to sick or injured employees. Liaise with other stakeholders such as
dept. of labour, EHWP, medical officers etc. to enhance quality of care to
employees. Monitor implementation of policies, guidelines and standard
operating procedures in PHC facilities. Conduct health and risk assessments
in facilities every two years or when there is any change in the workplace
according to the Occupational Health and safety Act. Monitor that staff
satisfaction survey is conducted in PHC facilities in the Sub–District. Form part
of the sub-district Quality Improvement team. Monitor functioning of OHS
committees and attend health and safety committee meetings. Conduct
incident investigations in facilities when incident had occurred. Monitor
implementation of guidelines during needle stick injuries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/210 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): MCWYH
REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/52
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Thembisile Hani Sub-district (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A
minimum of seven (7) years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Experience in infection control and prevention. Training in infection control will
be an added advantage. Computer literacy. Understanding of infection control
policy, good interpersonal skills, ability to plan and organize, presentation skills,
conflict management skills, people management. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate Mother, Child, Woman, Youth and Health (MCWYH) programme in
the Sub-District and liaise with Districts and other sectors on issues related to
the programme. Develop strategic plans, policies and protocols on
implementation of MCWYH programme. Support Sub-Districts with the
implementation of National and Provincial policies. Render technical support,
advice and capacity building of personnel. Manage the MCWYH services in the
Sub-Districts. Support the implementation of norms and standard for MCWYH
programme. Manage the programmes’ s finances and budget. Monitor and
evaluate the impact of the programme. Compile reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/211 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: QUALITY ASSURANCE REF NO:
MPDOH/OCT/25/53
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Thembisile Hani Sub-district (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus five (5) years working experience in a health
care facility with at least two (2) years in clinical care management at Hospitals
and Primary Health Care facility. Knowledge of clinical care processes and
142
procedures aligned to Heath Profession Act and other relevant legal
frameworks such as Nursing Act, Allied Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, Patients’ Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act and Disciplinary code and procedure.
Knowledge of principles and methodologies, norms and standards applicable
to the Health Act. Knowledge of IDEAL and OHSC automated system will be
an added advantage. Other public service legislation and frameworks. Good
communication (Verbal and Written), interpersonal, planning, organizing,
financial management, technical, facilitation, analytical, problem solving,
decision making and computer skills (MS Office packages). Ability to work
independently and in a team. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide support and oversight to Primary Health Care facilities in activities of
clinical governance standard, Quality Assurance activities, Ideal framework,
OHSC framework and management of complaints, compliments and
suggestions. Review and revise existing norms and standards for aligned with
current norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/212 : TRAINING OFFICER: HRD REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/54
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Middelburg Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus a three-year
Diploma / Degree in HR, HRD, Public Management / Affairs or equivalent (NQF
level 6/7) as recognized by SAQA. A two-year post qualification experience in
training facilitation. Valid driver’s licence. A short course in a Train the Trainer /
Facilitators or relevant HRD programme will be an added advantage. Skills:
Demonstrable training, facilitation & presentation skills. Good interpersonal
relations, Communication skills, Working knowledge of the Public Service Act,
PFMA, Skills Development Act, Employment Equity Act and other relevant
prescripts. Computer literacy (PowerPoint and Ms Word).
DUTIES : Facilitate training. Co-ordinate HRD activities at the Middelburg Hospital and
collaborate with Districts and facilities. Facilitate the Compulsory Induction
Programme. Liaise with the National School of Government and other training
providers. Keep training records on the training database. Conduct needs
assessment, develop training material, and conduct impact assessment.
Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports for the HRD unit. Must be able
to drive and travel to meetings and workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/213 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2) REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/582
(X28 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Bongani TB Specialized Hospital (X1 Post)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Themba Hospital (X1 Post)
Kaapmuiden Clinic (X1 Post)
Shongwe Hospital (X4 Posts)
Jeppes Reef Clinic (X1 Post)
Sabie Hospital (X2 Posts)
Lydenburg Hospital (X1 Post)
Kiwi Clinic (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X4 Posts)
Tintswalo Hospital (X3 Posts)
Matikwana Hospital (X3 Posts)
Kildare Clinic (X1 Post)
Thokozani Clinic (X1 Post)
Islington Clinic (X1 Post)
Ludlow Clinic (X1 Post)
Hluvukani CHC (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
143
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 and R171 depending on the level of care
at each facility (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing) equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/214 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2) REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/614
(X32 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (X1 Post)
Ackerville Clinic (X1 Post)
Hlalanikahle Clinic (X1 Post)
Louise Clinic (X1 Post)
Bernice Samuel Hospital (X1 Post)
FC Dumat Clinic (X1 Post)
Botleng CHC (X1 Post)
Impungwe Hospital (X1 Post)
Ogies Clinic (X1 Post)
Sakhelwe Clinic (X1 Post)
Middelburg Hospital (X1 Post)
H A Grove Hospital (X1 Post)
Simunye Clinic (X1 Post)
Pullenshope Clinic (X2 Posts)
Sikhululiwe Clinic (X1 Post)
Mmametlhake Hospital (X1 Post)
Marapyane CHC (X1 Post)
Siyabuswa CHC (X1 Post)
Diphalane (Pankop) CHC (X1 Post)
Loding Clinic (X1 Post)
Weltevrede Clinic (X1 Post)
Klarinet CHC (X2 Posts)
KwaMhlanga Hospital (X2 Posts)
Kwaggafontein “A” Clinic (X1 Post)
Goederede Clinic (X1 Post)
KwaMhlanga CHC (X1 Post)
Thembalethu CHC (X1 Post)
Witbank TB Specialized Hospital (X1 Post)
(Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 and R171, depending on the level of care
at each facility (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing), equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem-solving and
144
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho-Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/215 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2) REF NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/660
(X46 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Pixley Ka Seme Sub-District (X1 Post)
Fernie 1 Clinic (X1 Post)
Mayflower CHC (X1 Post)
Nhlazatshe Clinic (X1 Post)
Ermelo Hospital (X6 Posts)
Davel Clinic (X1 Post)
Breyten Clinic (X1 Post)
Emthonjeni Clinic (X1 Post)
Warburton CHC (X2 Posts)
KwaZanele Clinic (X1 Post)
Piet Retief Hospital (X5 Posts)
Driefontein New Stands CHC (X1 Post)
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X3 Posts)
Daggakraal CHC (X1 Post)
Perdekop CHC (X2 Posts)
Wakkerstroom Clinic (X1 Post)
Siyathemba CHC (X3 Posts)
Embalenhle CHC (X1 Post)
Lebohang CHC (1 Post)
Lilian Mambakazi CHC (X1 Post)
Greylingstad Clinic (X1 Post)
Nthoroane Clinic (X1 Post)
Sakhile Clinic (X1 Post)
Evander Hospital (X6 Posts)
Kinross Clinic (X1 Post)
Bethal Town Clinic (X1 Post)
(Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 and R171 depending on the level of care
at each facility (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing) equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
145
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 40/216 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/OCT/25/661
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Moloto CHC (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 and R171 depending on the level of care
at each facility (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing) equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho-Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
146
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application, but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates, and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings, following communication from the Human Resource
Management Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested
documents or information will result in your application not being considered.
The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of
the Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/217 : CHIEF DIETITIAN REF NO: NCDOH 111/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification in Dietetics/ Nutrition that allows for registration
with the HPCSA as a dietician. Current registration with HPCSA as Dietician.
Completion of one- year community service as Dietician or minimum of one –
year formal working experience in the field. A valid driver’s licence. experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 3 (three) years appropriate experience in the relevant
profession after registration with the Health Professional Council in South
Africa.
DUTIES : Nutrition management of patients. Patient assessment, counselling and
treatment to improve nutritional status, number of patients assessment,
counselled and treated. Nutrition Education, Promotion and Advocacy co-
ordinate, facilitates and support National nutrition priorities related health
calendar days. Collaboration with relevant stakeholders. Attending / facilitating
meetings with internal stakeholders (Facility Nutrition / District MCYWH &N
meetings, Quarterly Province/District MCYWH&N meeting, Annual Provincial
MCYWH&N, meeting, allied health meetings, perinatal meetings, etc.) Quality
assurance of all nutrition related programmes and functions: Supervisory
support to facilities / nutrition personnel to ensure quality nutrition services.
Number of supervisory support visits other department in the hospital.
Monitoring and evaluation of INP programme: Compile quarterly reports –
Number of quarterly reports compiled and submitted. Present quarterly report
reviews – Number of Presentations done at review or other meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
147
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 40/218 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 SPECIALTY REF NO: NCDOH
113/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in one of the specialties: Child Nursing Science, Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science, Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science,
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science, Paediatric Nursing Science, Advanced
Paediatric and Neonatal Nursing Science, Intensive Nursing Science,
Oncology Nursing Science, Operating Theatre Nursing Science, Ophthalmic
Nursing Science & Orthopaedic Nursing science and/or other relevant
specialty. Experience: Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years’ experience
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1 year post basic. Qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework: To assist in planning/organising and
monitoring of the objectives of the specialised unit in consultation with
subordinates. To provide a therapeutic environment for staff, patients and the
public. To provide comprehensive, quality nursing care as a member of the
multi-disciplinary team according to the identified needs of the patient, based
on scientific principles. To delegate duties and support staff in the execution of
patient care delivery. To provide direct and indirect supervision of all nursing
staff/housekeeping staff and to give guidance. To ensure continuity of patient
care on all levels e.g. workbook, handover rounds. To liaise and communicate
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as other departments within the hospital
e.g. during operational meetings with nursing supervisor and subordinates.
Participation in training and research: To assist in orientation, induction and
mentoring of all nursing staff and orientation of other staff. To assist in the
planning and co-ordination of training and promote learning opportunities for
all nursing categories i.e. on the job training. To complete patient related data
and partake in research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services: To assist
with relief duties of the supervisor and act as junior shift-leader on both day
and night shift. To partake in overall specialized unit functions, i.e. team
building Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development:
To maintain the Code of Conduct: Public Service. Professional Body. Seek
learning opportunities: In-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATION : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 40/219 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GENERAL) REF NO: NCDOH 121/2025 (X12
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458.per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726.per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10)
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
148
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing, Grade 3: A minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures. Adopt
multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care. Maintain
clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing care are
implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records. Maintain client
satisfaction through quality service innovation and professional nursing care by
upholding the Batho Pele principles and patient’s rights. Implementation of
standards to ensure adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital
measures. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 40/220 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 REF NO: NCDOH 122/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 – R250 500 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse Registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: No experience required,
Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with SANC as a Staff nurse Grade 3: A minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals. Implementation of
standards to ensure adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital
measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 40/221 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE REF NO: NCDOH 125/2025 (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
149
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant
(Enrolled Nurse assistant). Experience: Grade 1: No experience required,
Grade 2: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living. Provide elementary clinical nursing
care. Maintain professional Growth /ethical standards and self-development.
Maintain hygiene of patients. Provide nutrition. Assist with elimination process.
Measure, interpret and record vital signs. Operate all relevant apparatus and
equipment. Assist professional nurses with clinical procedures. Preparation of
patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures. Maintain the code of conduct
as required in the Public Service. Implementation of standards to ensure
adherence to National Core Standards and Ideal Hospital measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or E-Mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 40/222 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (PSYCHIATRY) REF NO: NCDOH 127/2025
(Contract appointment – 12 months – 20 sessions per week)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: (less than 5 years’ experience as a Specialist), Grade 2: (At least 5
years, but less than 10 years as a Specialist), hour Grade 3: (10 years and
more experience as a Specialist) An MBChB degree and registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Experience or additional qualification in Forensic Psychiatry
(advantageous). Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act No. 17 of 2002,
Child Justice Act 75 of 2008 and Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977. Ability to
work collaboratively with judicial, correctional, and clinical teams.
DUTIES : Conduct 30-day forensic psychiatric observations in terms of Sections 77, 78,
and 79 of the CPA (Act 51 of 1977). Perform short forensic psychiatric
evaluations of accused persons referred by the courts. Provide expert
psychiatric reports for both adult and child forensic assessments. Participate in
multidisciplinary team case discussions and provide clinical guidance to
registrars and psychologists. Ensure compliance with legal, ethical, and clinical
standards in forensic mental health practice. Assist with multidisciplinary
management of Forensic state patients.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. NK Kirimi Tel No: (053) 802 3600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the front reception of
Northern Cape Department of Health, James Exum Building, 144 Dutoitspan
Road, Kimberley or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
150
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://www.westerncape.gov.za/education via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae; applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 40/223 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ASSESSEMENT AND EXAMINATIONS REF NO: 303
Chief Directorate: Assessment And Examinations
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), An all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. At least
5 years' experience at senior managerial level, valid driver’s license.
Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service (SMS). Knowledge of: Advanced knowledge of public policy analysis
and public policy development processes advanced knowledge of strategy
development, strategy management and strategy monitoring and review
processes advanced knowledge of modern systems of governance and
administration advanced knowledge of public finance, people management
advanced knowledge of public communication, public education, public
participation and public discourse management processes knowledge of public
management theory and practice knowledge of global, regional and local
political, economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of
the Western Cape knowledge of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector. Skills: Strong
conceptual and formulation skills strong leadership skills in complex situations
team building and strong interpersonal skills excellent verbal and written
communication skills outstanding planning, organising and people
management skills computer literacy. Personal attributes: A highly developed
interpretative and conceptualisation/ formulation ability the ability to render
advice and guidance in an objective and dedicated manner the ability to multi-
task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
circumstances the ability to persuade and influence the ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain provincial examination and assessment systems that
are aligned to all national and provincial policies. Develop electronic
examination and assessment systems in line with current policies to effectively
meet the demands of 21st century education. Ensure timeous appointments
and training of moderation and marking officials for the various internal and
151
external examinations and assessments. Ensure the training of school
principals and invigilators in the management of the examinations. Ensure the
Management of examination and assessment concessions, appeals, and
accommodations for all grades via the CEMIS system. Provide guidance and
support to schools to ensure the credibility of school-based assessment.
Ensure the development of teachers in the different types of assessment.
Ensure support to districts and schools in the identification and management
of examination and assessment irregularities. Devise strategies to provide
support schools to improve examination and assessment results. Manage the
planning and administration of examinations and certification throughout the
education system. Ensure the management and administration of all external
examinations, the resulting and certification thereof. Provide provincial printing
services and ensure timeous examination printing, sealing and distribution of
examination material. Ensure that the service is managed as per contract
specifications. Coordinate and manage the marking of examination answer
scripts through the identification of marking centres and the appointment of
personnel to perform the functions. Provide client support services and ensure
accurate registration of candidates and registration and audit of examination
centres in line with Umalusi requirements. Plan, manage and coordinate the
development and implementation of examination and assessment information
systems. Manage the development, implementation and review of policies to
govern the implementation and use of examination and assessment
information systems. Manage and monitor the development of new IT systems
and the optimal implementation of existing systems in the Chief Directorate, in
collaboration with Ce-I and SITA. Oversee the provision of user management
services. Drive training, capacity-building and knowledge sharing practices
across the Directorates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Loriston Tel No: (021) 467 2541
POST 40/224 : DIRECTOR INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
PLANNING (IMGP) REF NO: 304
Directorate: Institutional Management and Governance
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13). An all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary, and the employer’s contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. At least
5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in policy and regulation
development in an education governance environment at provincial or national
level, valid driver’s license. Successful completion of the Certificate for entry
into the Senior Management Service (SMS). Knowledge of: Advanced
knowledge of public policy analysis and public policy development processes
advanced knowledge of strategy development, strategy management and
strategy monitoring and review processes advanced knowledge of modern
systems of governance and administration advanced knowledge of public
finance, people management advanced knowledge of public communication,
public education, public participation and public discourse management
processes knowledge of public management theory and practice knowledge of
global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape knowledge of Constitutional, legal
and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector. Skills:
Strong conceptual and formulation skills strong leadership skills in complex
situations team building and strong interpersonal skills excellent verbal and
written communication skills outstanding planning, organising and people
management skills computer literacy. Personal attributes: A highly developed
interpretative and conceptualisation/ formulation ability the ability to render
advice and guidance in an objective and dedicated manner the ability to multi-
task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
circumstances the ability to persuade and influence the ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers.
DUTIES : Strategic management, advice and guidance in respect of the following
functional areas: Collaboration Schools - Manage the Collaboration Schools
programme. Manage and develop strategies, policies, frameworks and
guidelines to enhance the efficiency of the Collaboration Schools Initiative.
Ensure oversight, monitoring and accountability of the Collaboration Schools
initiative. Schools - Manage the planning, coordination and evaluation of IMG
152
in respect of public ordinary and independent schools. Coordinate the
compilation of IMG policies and develop a principal’s manual. Develop
guidelines, systems standards and best practices for IMG challenges (e.g.
timetables, code of conduct, learner pregnancy, etc. but excluding finance,
risks, facilities, people management, office systems and information
technology). Management and Governance (Non-Curriculum) - Ensure the
development and implementation of management and governance (non-
curriculum) policy and guidelines. Manage the election process of SGBs,
including administration of election process, liaise with Provincial Electoral
Committee, appoint service providers for training of electoral officers, and
maintain SGB elections. Safety Management - Represent the Western Cape
Education Department (WCED) on provincial level for safety management and
reports in this regard. Develop and maintain a safety management plan for the
WCED. Manage and coordinate safety investigations. Run safety awareness
programs. Learner Admissions - Manage and coordinate learner admissions
for the department. Manage the development, establishment, maintenance
and improvement of the learner admission online system. Manage the
planning, interpretation, development, monitoring and maintenance of learner
admissions policy, guidelines, circulars and processes. Manage the monitoring
and reporting of learner admissions governance and compliance across
districts, systems and processes. Suspensions and expulsions - Provide
advice and render secretariat service regarding suspensions and expulsions.
Strategic Management (including change management): Define and review on
a continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the
Directorate. Drive the Directorate’s strategic planning process. Drive the
development and management of the strategic and business plans for the
Directorate. Evaluate the performance of the Directorate on a continuing basis
against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards. People
Management - Participate in the recruitment of employees in the numbers and
grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the Directorate’s Business
Plan. Motivate, train and guide employees within the Directorate, to achieve
and maintain excellence in service delivery. Financial Management - Manage
participation in the budgeting process at Directorate level. Ensure the
preparation of the Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the Directorate. Assume
direct accountability for the efficient, economic and effective control and
management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AJE Meyer Tel No: (021) 467 2105
POST 40/225 : DIRECTOR: CAPE TEACHING AND LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE (CTLI) REF
NO: 305
Directorate: Cape Teaching and Leadership Institute
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13). An all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. At least
5 years' experience at a middle/senior managerial level, valid driver's license.
Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service (SMS). .Knowledge of: Advanced knowledge of public policy analysis
and public policy development processes advanced knowledge of strategy
development, strategy management and strategy monitoring and review
processes advanced knowledge of modern systems of governance and
administration advanced knowledge of public finance, people management
advanced knowledge of public communication, public education, public
participation and public discourse management processes knowledge of public
management theory and practice knowledge of global, regional and local
political, economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of
the Western Cape knowledge of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector. Skills: Strong
conceptual and formulation skills strong leadership skills in complex situations
team building and strong interpersonal skills excellent verbal and written
communication skills outstanding planning, organising and people
management skills computer literacy. Personal attributes: A highly developed
interpretative and conceptualisation/ formulation ability the ability to render
advice and guidance in an objective and dedicated manner the ability to multi-
task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
153
circumstances the ability to persuade and influence the ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers. Additional Requirements: Proven
relevant management experience in an educational environment. Advanced
knowledge of the South African Schools Act. Knowledge of all legislation and
policies as related to the Key Performance Areas applicable to teacher
education and development. Proven excellence in leadership and
management of teacher education and development programmes.
DUTIES : Design learning and development programmes. Provide curriculum and
research development services - Consult research to guide, develop and roll
out of blended programmes (e-learning, e-teaching and face-to-face). Develop
learning and development programmes - Support the WCED overall vision,
including e-vision through needs responsive teacher professional development
initiatives and programmes. Advocate and support the preparation of teachers
to embrace the WCED e-vision strategy in collaboration with relevant units and
partners. Coordinate differentiated professional development programmes that
will address the need of teachers at different levels of ICT integration into part
of their pedagogy in all schools. Implement systems to identify and meet
training and development needs and impact of interventions - Reflect, monitor
and evaluate provincial strategies and related TPD data. Using the formal and
informal analysis of the curriculum outcomes to identify the specific needs for
curriculum professional development involving all phases including
ECD/GET/FET. Assess training and development programmes. Liaise with
HEIs regarding development programmes - Collaborate regarding suitable
teacher development programmes empowering new and practicing teachers.
Market the CTLI. Deliver learning and development programmes: Facilitate and
coordinate functional training interventions. Facilitate and coordinate school
management training - Support and contribute to the school management and
leadership programmes. Facilitate and coordinate induction and orientation
programmes for Teachers - Facilitate and expand on the mentorship and
induction practices at school level. Facilitate and coordinate functional training
interventions. Facilitate and coordinate the school business management
training programme. Liaise and coordinate the preservice training programme.
Provide curriculum research development services. Manage awards and
excellence programmes. Provide an education library and information service:
Coordinate enhancement services to libraries. Coordinate the technical
support for virtual learning and physical library services. Manage and
coordinate the logistics administrative support and library server support of
library services. Manage the improvement of teacher qualifications and
competencies: Facilitate formal continuous Professional Teacher Development
towards qualification and school-based improvement. Custodian for the
Teacher Development Strategy. Implementation of future focused policy
considerations. Observe and be sensitive for the processing of teachers
continued needs in the classroom. Secure the infusion of ICT in the
presentation of all programmes to serve as norm for teachers to implement in
their classrooms and the pedagogy of subjects. Identify and coordinate
professional development programmes for different groups of teachers on the
development spectrum. Manage the implementation and maintenance of the
Continuous Professional Teacher Development System. Observe and monitor
the impact of practical teaching on the preparedness of new teachers during
their final year of initial teaching. Manage the NTA and other teaching awards
systems. Coordinate PTEDC activities in the province. Render support
services: Render financial services. Render facility management services -
secure a well – functioning support and corporate services for the institute to
ensure all the functional operation of facilities, venues and hostels against a
high standard of effectiveness and tasteful neatness. Render course
administration. Render general support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Benjamin Tel No: (021) 467-2368
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
154
OTHER POSTS
POST 40/226 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (RHEUMATOLOGY)
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Facilitation of management
system. -Effective and efficient administration. Communication including report
generation, letter writing, consultation. Technical skills appropriate for
investigation. Clinical Skills required of a Medical Specialist Physician (e.g.
Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient, outpatient, and emergency
contexts) -MMED and FCP (SA) Qualification. -Clinical experience in In-patient
and Out-patient care.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and Administration. Teaching
and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof B Hodkinson Tel No: (021) 404 2131 or Bridget.hodkinson@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 2 years. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract. -Employees
in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar,
will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not
be successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Groote Schuur Hospital has
adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this
platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals.
This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George
Provincial Hospital. -Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Senior Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with
Stellenbosch University/ University of Cape Town according to the yearbook
and guidelines. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/227 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY) (ACUTE
SURGERY/TRAUMA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
155
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in the case of a foreign qualified employee)
as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in the case of a foreign qualified employee)
as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCS part 2 and experience in
research/publications. Effective leadership and interpersonal skills. Clinical
and surgical competency in General Surgery. Ability to work in a high-volume
clinic and surgical environment. Computer literacy, database knowledge,
research experience, interest in data collection and analysis for service
improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care delivery, diversity,
transformation and equity. Experience in supervision and training of staff and
students at under- and post-graduate levels.
DUTIES : The role involves oversight of both the Acute Care Surgery and Trauma Units
at Tygerberg Hospital, ensuring efficient, high-quality clinical service delivery
and alignment with institutional goals for acute and emergency surgical care. It
includes supervising and training junior surgical staff, providing structured
mentorship and bedside teaching, and contributing to undergraduate and
postgraduate academic programs within the Division of General Surgery. The
post requires active participation in trauma and acute surgery rosters,
multidisciplinary patient care, and theatre-based service delivery. It also
encompasses engagement in quality assurance, governance, and data-driven
improvement initiatives, including morbidity and mortality reviews, clinical
audits, and system redesign projects aimed at strengthening patient flow,
safety, and outcomes across the trauma and surgical ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Brand, email: mbran@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/228 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: PSYCHIATRY (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical
156
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to be on call and availability for
Emergency situations. Willing to participate in a commuted overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong record of clinical expertise, clinical
governance, research, teaching and training at under and postgraduate levels.
Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise
clinical training and teaching. Appropriate experience in teaching, training and
supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients, including
outreach services within the hospital catchment. Management of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Leadership of a multi-
disciplinary clinical team. Academic teaching, training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Ori Tel No: (021) 826 5863
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates, who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/229 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY) (ACUTE
SURGERY/TRAUMA)
(Contract Until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in General Surgery.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in the case of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in the case of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in General Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCS part 2 and experience in
research/publications. Effective leadership and interpersonal skills. Clinical
and surgical competency in General Surgery. Ability to work in a high-volume
clinic and surgical environment. Computer literacy, database knowledge,
research experience, interest in data collection and analysis for service
improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care delivery, diversity,
transformation and equity. Experience in supervision and training of staff and
students at under- and post-graduate levels.
157
DUTIES : The role involves oversight of both the Acute Care Surgery and Trauma Units
at Tygerberg Hospital, ensuring efficient, high-quality clinical service delivery
and alignment with institutional goals for acute and emergency surgical care. It
includes supervising and training junior surgical staff, providing structured
mentorship and bedside teaching, and contributing to undergraduate and
postgraduate academic programs within the Division of General Surgery. The
post requires active participation in trauma and acute surgery rosters,
multidisciplinary patient care, and theatre-based service delivery. It also
encompasses engagement in quality assurance, governance, and data-driven
improvement initiatives, including morbidity and mortality reviews, clinical
audits, and system redesign projects aimed at strengthening patient flow,
safety, and outcomes across the trauma and surgical ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Brand, email: mbran@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. -Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/230 : PRINCIPAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 (PSYCHOLOGY SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R1 245 564 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Psychologist. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical
Psychologist (Independent Practice). Experience: A minimum of 3 years’
appropriate experience as a Clinical Psychologist after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid driver’s licence. Availability to perform after hour duty when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate post registration
experience of in and outpatient clinical service delivery and management of
such services. The design and conduct of research, academic teaching,
training and supervision of interns and clinical psychologists Appropriate
experience in the field of intellectual disability. Appropriate work experience
with regards to quality related aspects in a hospital or health service
environment. Knowledge of mental disorders, serious mental illness,
psychopathology and psychological problems, as these relate to working with
people with intellectual disability who experience mental health challenges.
Sound knowledge of legislation and policy applicable in a Mental health. Sound
knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, 2002 (Act 17 of 2002), and the
mental-health care package, policies and the ethos of community-based
mental-health care. Basic Computer skills. Communication skills. Ability to
communicate with people with intellectual disability.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient operational management and service delivery and
planning of the Clinical Psychology component in the psychiatric hospital in
terms of the relevant acts and regulations. Participate in the planning and
management of the training programme and provide teaching, training, clinical
research Supervision to psychology, medical and other undergraduate/
postgraduate students. Responsible for clinical governance of the Psychology
department ensuring effective and efficient management of all aspects of
patient care, ensuring the highest standard of care possible within the available
resource framework. Responsible for corporate governance, including all
aspects of people management and development, Financial Management,
Information Management and management of Psychology department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Saville Tel No: (021) 503 5004
158
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/231 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (CHILD AND ADOLESCENT
PSYCHIATRY) (EXCLUDING COT)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/ EB
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel). Good interpersonal and communication skills (verbal and
written). Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
Appropriate experience in child and adolescent psychiatric disorders,
neurodevelopmental, developmental and behaviour disorders.
DUTIES : To provide clinical consultations to patients and families referred to the child &
adolescent psychiatry unit from the Tygerberg Hospital catchment area. To
assist in the provision of emergency cover and cover for leave of psychiatric
registrars rotating through child psychiatry. To render support to the Head of
the Unit with respect to administrative matters. To teach child and adolescent
psychiatry to undergraduate students in relevant degrees and diplomas and to
participate in operational research when appropriate. To provide district
outreach support for child and adolescent psychiatry under the supervision of
the CAP consultants.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Lachman, email: anusha@sun.ac.za; Prof. Seedat Tel No: (021) 938-9021
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
159
POST 40/232 : REGISTRAR (PSYCHIATRY) (X4 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory, Rotation through the UCT training
platform – which can include Groote Schuur, Valkenberg, Red Cross Children
Hospital and Lentegeur Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to participate in commuted
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Medical research capabilities.
DUTIES : Clinical and corporate governance duties as pertain to services provided at
current placement. Contribute to the teaching and training of Health Sciences
undergraduate students. Fully participate in the academic activities of the
designated university as required per regulations to achieve the MMed (Psych)
/ FC Psych qualification. To provide psychiatric services to in-and outpatients
of designated service areas where placement as well as assigned district and
primary level clinical duties. To provide supervision and in-service training to
junior colleagues and other staff. Appropriate clinical experience in psychiatry
after registration as a medical practitioner. Academic teaching, training and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Ori: University of Cape Town (UCT) Tel No: (021) 826 5863
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal, as such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
for a maximum contract period of 4 years. Each registrar will be appointed in a
specific training complex and will be expected to rotate through the various
institutions in the complex. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship, should they not be successful for an advertised Specialist
position. -Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must
indicate whether they have bursary obligations. The Department of Health is
guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are
encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated.
Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the
Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line
with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Applicants who only have a temporary
residence status will not be considered. -“Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status). -Other: Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with the applicable University in the Western Cape according to the
requirements for the discipline in the yearbook and guidelines.” The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
160
POST 40/233 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to perform shift work and
commuted overtime. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate experience and skills in surgical care to manage a ward, theatre
and outpatients at a regional level hospital. Must be able to perform
amputations, basic laparotomies and minor surgical procedures safely and
without significant surgical supervision. The ability to perform basic diagnostic
upper endoscopy. ATLS/ BLS certification or equivalent is required. Appropriate
experience in managing critically ill patients.
DUTIES : Operative management of all surgical and trauma emergencies, as well as
elective surgical procedures at a regional level hospital. Outpatient clinic
consultations and management planning. Management of critically ill patients
including resuscitation of patients and management of ventilatory and inotropic
support in an Intensive Care Unit. Inpatient management and
interdepartmental liaison. Endoscopic GIT diagnostic and therapeutic
management. -Supervision and teaching of students and interns. Provide a
proficient administrative service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters
and medicolegal work. Provide guidance and leadership towards strategic
goals and objectives of the department. Ensure cost efficient service at clinical
level with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicines, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Prof H Bougard Tel No: (021) 402-6444
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status. -The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
161
POST 40/234 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CHC, Northern/Tygerberg Substructure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with
the SAPC as Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers licence. To be registered as
Responsible Pharmacist with the SAPC when appointed. Preparedness to be
registered as a tutor with the SAPC. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and
Pharmaceutical acts and laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Sound Management,
communication and conflict handling skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Take leadership in the pharmacy to establish a value driven pharmacy service
and implement policies and guidelines in keeping with the Batho Pele, SAPC
and National Drug policy and National and Provincial treatment guidelines.
Ensure adherence to minimum standards for dispensing as well as accessibility
to medication and pharmaceutical care to patients. Manage, assess and
monitor compliance wrt Good Pharmacy Practice, Ideal Clinic and National
Core Standards. Effective monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure,
implementation and evaluation of budgetary control measures. Human
Resource Management which includes tutoring of Pharmacist’s Assistants as
well as development of pharmacy staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Parker Tel No: (021) 815-8876
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services), for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/235 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA-qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as a Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA-qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as a Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. -A
minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Pharmacist
with the SAPC in respect of SA-qualified employees. 14 years’ relevant
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to perform relief duties at
162
pharmacies in the sub-structure. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and
Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to train
staff. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Familiar
with Primary Health Care Environment, Antimicrobial Stewardship and
Differentiated models of Care.
DUTIES : Support with the efficient and cost-effective functioning of pharmaceutical
service in all Khayelitsha Sub District PHC sites, including adherence to
statutory requirements and policies. Support to ensure provision of safe and
cost-effective pharmaceutical care to patients. Support and accept co -
responsibility for pharmaceutical supply management in Khayelitsha clinics by
ensuring safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, distribution and
discarding of pharmaceuticals. Support the pharmaceutical budget and
expenditure to ensure compliance with financial prescripts. Support with
monitoring of Human Resources and supervising of Pharmacists Assistants to
ensure optimum productivity and people development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sigcau Tel No: (021) 360-5200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. -The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/236 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Nyanga Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with a duration of at least one year in Curative
Skills in Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC (R48). Registration with
the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
nursing experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-year post basic
qualification in Curative skills in Primary Health Care (R48). Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing and public
service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource and Financial policies.
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Manage, control and act in facet of health, support, security, cleaning, infection
control and ground services. Personnel matters including supervision and
Performance Management, Finances and Procurement, as well as
implementing policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the mentioned
facets. Manage planning to practice a holistic Health Service on a short-
/medium-/long-term basis. Render Clinical services and organise a cost-
effective service on a daily basis. Ensure that all personnel undergo training
according their Individual Development and Performance Plan. Participate in
community involvement as well as collect and verify submission of accurate
statistics timeously and give continuous positive support to the Assistant
Manager: Nursing (Primary Health Care).
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mgqaliso Tel No: (021) 831-0882
163
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/237 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL) (HIV/AIDS)
AND (PHC CWH) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with the
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to perform
relief duties in the sub-structure facilities. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and
Nursing Acts and Laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain
a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to train staff. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Oversee and ensure fully functional health committees, including organising
regular meetings, training members, and compliance with relevant health
legislation. Manage human resources by maintaining a fully staffed CHC,
coordinating staff training aligned with skills development plans, resolving
labour relations issues, and monitoring absenteeism. Control and monitor
financial resources by preparing balanced budgets, ensuring expenditure
controls, meeting revenue targets, and complying with financial regulations.
Supervise supply chain functions to maintain adequate stock of essential
supplies, manage asset registers, ensure functioning equipment, and oversee
government vehicle usage and servicing. Ensure accurate and timely health
information management, including data quality checks, timely reporting, and
optimal use of PHCIS systems. Promote quality of care through Batho Pele
principles, ensuring health and safety standards, conducting monthly clinical
audits (M&M meetings), and overseeing infection control and staff training
initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mokitimi Tel No: (021) 360-4703
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/238 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Ultrasound Radiography. Inherent Requirement of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence and willingness to travel for training and meetings. Experience:
164
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in
respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of
RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of
RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Comprehensive
sonography education and extensive hands-on experience, demonstrating a
strong commitment to professional growth and lifelong learning through
advanced education, research, and staff training. A thorough understanding of
human anatomy and physiology is required, along with knowledge of disease
pathologies as they relate to sonographic findings. A commitment to ethical
practice, maintaining patient confidentiality, a professional demeanor, and the
capacity to manage stressful situations calmly are essential. Strong abilities to
interact effectively with both patients and medical staff, clearly explaining
technical information and collaborating on patient care and understanding of
basic computer programs and the use of reporting systems.
DUTIES : Provision of patient centered Ultrasound service by adhering to departmental
protocols, procedures and professional conduct. Providing management of
ultrasound services while producing Ultrasound imaging, reporting and
statistics. Support to managers and colleagues which provides effective
interdepartmental communication. Adhering to self-development and training
of students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NJ Manuel Tel No: (021) 918-1387
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services), for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/239 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
SALARY : Grade 1: R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’ appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to provide oversite, training
and support to social workers and the students. Ability to render clinical social
work practice, lead, supervise and work in a social work team and as a member
of a multi-disciplinary team in a Specialist Acute Health Care setting. Computer
literacy, good verbal and written communication skills. Sound knowledge and
expertise in Hospital social work practice in crisis management, grief and
bereavement.
165
DUTIES : Assisting with complex cases, administrative duties and upholding ethical
standards and relevant legislation. Clinical Supervision to social work staff and
students. Ensuring high quality of patient services and professional
development. Provide direct supervision, clinical case consultation, developing
staff competencies, monitoring quality assurance. Psycho-social assessments,
counselling to individuals, groups and families. Report-writing and related
administration. -Research, teach and train. Social work specialist knowledge
and skills to services within General Social Work Department, to undertake
social work management duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Hlakudi Tel No: (021) 404-5430
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/240 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: 72-HOUR
PSYCHIATRY WARD) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with psychiatry.
A Post basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Registration with the
Professions Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years of appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Professional nurse with
the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Professional nurse with
the SANC in general nursing. At least 10 years of the above periods must be
appropriate / recognizable experience in the specialty after obtaining the 1 year
post basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Ability to
work under pressure and in a multi-disciplinary team context. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/ make decisions independently and as
part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal,
leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of major incident disaster
plan. Computer skills (MS Office).
DUTIES : Provide safe and comprehensive care delivered to patients within the
psychiatry unit. Provision of optimal, holistic specialized care with set standards
within professional/legal framework. Ensure adherence to the principles of IPC
practices in the psychiatry unit. Ensure accurate record keeping for statistical
and legal purposes. Support and supervise students and subordinates in
psychiatry. Effective utilization of human, material and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
166
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/241 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: ICU HIGH
CARE AND RENAL UNIT) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in Medical & Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care General or Child. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Intensive /Critical care after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, overtime, day and night
duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan, organise &
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving & decision making.
Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Intensive and High care unit.
DUTIES : Use expert knowledge and skills to ensure quality appropriate adult and
paediatric patient care are met and delivered by the nursing and clinical team
including identification and prevention of risks. Participate in quality
improvement implementation by providing effective direction, supervision and
education of nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the Intensive/High
care unit, according to audits and appropriate data. Support the unit
manager/Operational manager in the co-ordination, organising and control
over the activities, personnel, equipment, and stores in the unit to utilize
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain
professionalism and the display of core values of the Department of Health
WCG in the execution of duties, while practising within the legislation,
regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will
be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period
of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Medical & Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Child Care with the South African
Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
167
POST 40/242 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
OPD)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Good interpersonal skills. Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, after-hours, night duty, weekends and overtime when
necessary. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound scientific knowledge of
Trauma, OPD & Emergency nursing. Good interpersonal skills. Computer
literacy & report writing skills. Able to capture and interpret relevant data. Ability
to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards with a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources. Participation in
research activities. Provision of support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provide effective
trauma and emergency nursing care to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Saldanha Bay Sub-district,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. -Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in: Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/243 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE AND DAY
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year in Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Operating theatre technique, which allows registration with
SANC. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
168
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Operating Theatre after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends, overtime and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and
written communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of
the Department of Health Western Cape. Leadership towards the realisation of
strategic goals and objectives of the Operating Theatre.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the Operating Theatre. Render
and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with
surgical and medical procedures. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain and promote professional
growth/ethical standards and development of self and others. Display of core
values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre
Nursing. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar posts within
George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/244 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours,
weekends and overtime when necessary. Willingness to be on call.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Operating Theatre after obtaining the
1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound scientific knowledge of Operating theatre nursing.
Computer literacy & report writing skills. Able to capture and interpret relevant
data. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Good
interpersonal skills. Ability to perform standby duties when required.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development. Ensure specialise theatre nursing care. Participation in
the research activities.
169
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/245 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay PHC Support & Outreach, Mossel Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R 48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the specific specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to work
overtime when necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-district.
Willingness to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
NIMART training or experience. Problem-solving, report writing, liaison and
facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Good
communication skills Verbal and written). Appropriate knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health and Wellness Western
Cape.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Lamprecht Tel No: (044) 604-6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route District,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
170
POST 40/246 : QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate four-Year National Diploma/
Degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South African
Statutory Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance (QA). Appropriate
experience in Infection Prevention Control (IPC), Occupation Health and Safety
(OH&S). Experience in Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively within the
Rural Districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyze and
interpret Health Systems Information, compile reports and present the data to
direct planning. Knowledge of Project and Financial Management. Good
organizational, interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills.
Computer literacy (Ms Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to
communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishment staff with the implementation of the Ideal
Clinic Realization and Maintenance (ICRM) and Ideal Hospital requirements in
preparation for the Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC). Establish
measures that will ensure health and safety of staff and users and Ensure the
maintenance of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards. Help
build the competency of staff by identifying, planning and addressing Quality
Improvement (QI), Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Occupational
Health and Safety training needs and maintaining and updating the Health
Establishment training data base. Monitor data quality in the Health
Establishment. Manage service utilization by care coordination in order to meet
the comprehensive Health needs of the individual client and to ensure quality
and cost-effective outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Theron Tel No: (021) 877-6400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and competency assessment.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Drakenstein
Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/247 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FINANCE (DEBT MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Diploma or Degree
in Finance or related qualification. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
hospital fees/finance environment. Appropriate experience with the compilation
of AFS and application of General Recognised Accounting Practices.
Appropriate working experience in debt write offs. Appropriate working
experience on the HIS Accounts Receivable System. Appropriate working
experience on the application of Microsoft Word and Excel. Appropriate
working experience in the compilation of formal submissions. Appropriate
supervisory experience in a financial environment. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and experience of the Hospital Fees policies and procedures.
Knowledge and experience of UPFS tariff structures. Knowledge and
experience of the HIS, Accounts Receivable System. Knowledge and
experience in debt write off procedures and write-off delegations. Knowledge
and experience in claims administration-submission to third-party funders.
Knowledge and experience of the Western Cape Health Facility Board and
Committees Act. Excellent verbal and written communication, people and
interpersonal relationship skills. Analytical thinking abilities with mathematical
and accounting literacy. Good organisational, planning and time management
171
skills. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications (Word and Excel).
Preparedness to work overtime, travel and overnight away when required.
DUTIES : Debt management and implement debt recovery strategies. Manage, monitor
performance and meet with external service providers and other funders.
Annual revision of UPFS/Sundry tariffs and updating of the procedure manuals
and UPFS user guide. Manage the process of submitting claims to the RAF
and COID, and Oversee the payment of accounts and the allocation income
received. Administration of Health Facility Boards financial matters, including
the Annual Financial Statements and training. Supervision and development of
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AE van Driel Tel No: (021) 483 3297
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/248 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS
West Coast District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Labour Relations.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Strong interpersonal and good time management
planning skills. Ability to think analytical and be able to resolve problems. Ability
to negotiate and conciliate. Understanding collective bargaining and dispute
resolution in the essential services.
DUTIES : Support and advice to all staff and supervisors with regards to employee
relations. Effective management of all disciplinary matters and disputes.
Monitor and maintain the collective bargaining structures. Provide training with
regards to employee relations to all employees. Provide advice, guidance and
support to your supervisor and the Management team. Coordinate and manage
statistics/data with regards to disciplinary- and grievance procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R van Staden Tel No: (022) 814-0331
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/249 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (CLINICAL
SOURCING) (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma /Degree in
Supply Chain Management / Procurement or Finance related or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience and understanding of clinical
consumables, services and equipment within a healthcare environment.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver's licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
management skills, incl. ability to manage a team. Problem Solving. Rigorous
expenditure analysis and reporting. Ability to assimilate and interpret detailed
information. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Strong
research skills and attention to detail. Report-writing. Computer literacy (Word,
Excel and PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Provide an integrated demand, acquisition and contract management service
of critical goods and service commodities within the Department of Health with
a focus on: End-to-end management of the sourcing process: integrated
demand, acquisition and contract management service of clinical goods and
services commodities. Commodity-based lifecycle costing: conduct market
research within commodity range, research new developments and best
practice, identify opportunities to reduce cost base through efficient
procurement. Supplier relationship and performance management. Internal
and external stakeholder management. Human resource management.
172
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mili Tel No: (021) 834-9051, email: Ayanda. Mili@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/250 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiography in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the Radiography (Diagnostic)
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Participate in the
after-hours roster to ensure the provision of a 24-hour service. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of protocols, radiation protection, quality
assurance and equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and perform
effectively as part of a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of Patient Archiving
and Communication Systems and Radiology Information Systems.
DUTIES : Produce radiographs of optimum quality with good patient care. Assist with
administrative duties in radiology. Support of supervisor and teambuilding.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Safe
use and care of equipment. Assist with training of community service
Radiographers and students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Samuels Tel No: (021) 377-4799
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/251 : MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3: CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
173
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Technologist.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Technologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Technologist in respect of South African qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Technologist in respect of South African qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist in respect of South
African qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist in in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Perform after
hours, weekend and public holidays as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge and skills in use and maintenance of
laboratory equipment. Ability to work in a team and independently. Proficiency
in quality management system implementation and Microsoft Office Suite
Knowledge about routine drug analysis and the importance of patient
management. Trained and qualified in laboratory techniques, with recent
appropriate experience and high attention to detail. Strong knowledge of the
laboratory quality management systems and regulatory frameworks. Excellent
interpersonal skills and effective communication. Trained and qualified in ISO
15189 with experience in an accredited laboratory. Certification or training in
Quality Management Systems under ISO 15189.
DUTIES : Maintenance of the quality management systems (QMS) aligned with ISO
15189. -Ensure laboratory procedures and documentation meet regulatory and
accreditation requirements. Coordinate and support internal and external
audits, inspections, and proficiency testing. Manage controlled documents,
including standard operating procedures (SOPs), controlled forms, verification,
and validations as required. Review and update current standard operating
procedures. Prepare regular quality reports and present findings to
management. Coordinate training programs for laboratory staff on quality
procedures and regulatory compliance. Conduct competency assessments
and maintain training records. Promote a culture of quality and continuous
improvement. Investigate non-conformities and implement corrective and
preventive actions. Perform risk assessments and mitigation of the identified
risks. -Performance of laboratory assays, specimen handling, and instrument
maintenance, as required. Perform trend analysis relevant to the
ISO15189:2022 QMS.
ENQUIRIES : Prof P Sinxadi Tel No: (021) 406 6008
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. No payment of any kind is required when applying for
this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/252 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE (BOOKKEEPING)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
174
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Diploma or Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid
driver’s licence (code B/BE). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions and the departmental delegations and procedures. Advanced
computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
Strong leadership, managerial, organisational, strategic, operational and
contingency planning skills. Independent decision-making, problem-solving
and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of asset and liability suspense accounts.
Extensive knowledge of debt management and book closure procedures.
Knowledge of BAS (Basic Accounting System), LOGIS and PERSAL.
Extensive knowledge of departmental debt policies. Excellent project
management skills. Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage and administrate the Department’s Asset and Liability suspense
accounts. Analyse and manage the Departmental debt account, the reporting
thereof and compilation of write-off submissions. Consolidate and provide
inputs with regard to the Interim and Annual Financial Statements. Control of
monthly IYM departmental reporting. Overall Human Resource Management
of staff. Effective control to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DA Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483-4398
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/253 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Overberg District Office, Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year Diploma or Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance, Revenue and NPI payments
and expenditure management. Appropriate experience in budget, Revenue
and expenditure control. Appropriate experience in the management of Asset
and Liability Accounts and Debt management. Appropriate proven Supervisory
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and practical
experience in BAS as well as good organisational, managerial, leadership skills
and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Extensive knowledge of
relevant financial prescripts, departmental policies, delegations and
procedures and Strong people management skills, ability to work in a team
context and motivate team members. Computer literacy and thorough
knowledge of computer systems (Excel, BAS, Clinicom & Account Receivable).
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge of the Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management for all Finance, Revenue and NPI
Management functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of
policies and processes within the Overberg District. Responsible for effective
expenditure control, budget allocations and management. Responsible for
Payment and journal authorization in respect of Revenue and NPI’s and all
other suppliers. Preparation of reports and assist with the compilation of the
Annual and Interim Financial statements. Clear Asset and liability accounts and
Debt Management. Monitor & Evaluation of Revenue and NPI’s within the
Overberg District. Supervision of Staff and Admin support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Lamohr Tel No: (028) 214-5800
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
175
POST 40/254 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year national diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
Environment within a health environment, that focuses on the Key Performance
Areas of the Post, procurement of goods and services, warehouse
management and asset management. Appropriate LOGIS and EPS
experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge & practical experience in LOGIS, ESL, EPS and
Computer literacy Microsoft Office. Appropriate knowledge of relevant financial
prescripts, departmental policies, delegations & procedures. Good verbal &
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management of all Supply Chain Management
functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement
policies and processes, Demand, Acquisition, Contract, Logistics, Asset and
Disposal Management. Inventory control and warehouse management.
System Management including ensuring system controller functions and
approver duties on EPS. Accurate and timeous preparation of reports and
assist with the compilation of the Annual and Interim Financial Statements.
Manage all people management related functions within the component.
Support supervisor in executing the hospital’s strategic objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mdodeni Tel No: (021) 370-1125
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/255 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Diploma/ Degree in
finance related. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience in Finance
Department, Experience in LOGIS and BAS. Inherent requirement of the job:
A valid driver’s licence. Will be required to perform overtime when necessary.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyse and provide solutions to
finance related problems. Good communication, interpersonal and
organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
email). Knowledge in processes, procedures, prescripts and legislative
framework, PFMA, NTTR and PTI, and the Accounting Officer’s System of the
Department of Health and including delegations. In-depth knowledge of SCOA
codes.
DUTIES : Support the management in executing the hospital’s strategic objectives.
Ensuring Budget maintenance for Victoria Hospital functional business units.
Render and effective and efficient Sundry Creditors service. Render effective
and efficient debt services (including monthly supplier reconciliation). Asst with
the timeous and accurate reporting with regards to the Annual and Interim
Financial Statements. Interpret, apply and ensure compliance with financial
policies, regulations, and instructions as practiced in the public sector.
Authorise transactions on LOGIS and BAS (including payments and journals).
Manage assets and liabilities accounts and petty cash. Supervisory functions
pertaining to the Creditors section as well as planning, training and monitoring
of staff, SPMS, and other HR-related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Dyini Tel No: (021) 799-1290, email:
Dyini.Chwayita@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
176
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/256 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree within Human Resource Management or Labour Relations.
Experience: Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Appropriate experience in
labour relations. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel within the Cape Winelands District area, Rural
Health District and Cape Town. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office package). Ability to work under pressure, meet deadlines
and maintain confidentiality. Ability to work independently and in a team with
good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient rendering of Labour Relations functions including
Investigations and Representing the Employer in Disciplinary matters. Assist
with the facilitation, development, implementation and evaluation of LR
training. Interpret and apply Labour Relations policies/prescripts and
manage/monitor its effective implementation. Effective and efficient
management of misconduct, grievance and dispute cases. Render an effective
administrative support service to the Labour Relations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Phillips Tel No: (023) 348 8183
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Cape Winelands District
Office, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/257 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (ELECTRICAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Brewelskloof Hospital, Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
Electrical Artisanship. Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after
obtaining the trade test certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
wireman’s licence. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Physically fit to perform
duties. Must be available for standby duties after hours, on weekends and
public holidays, and willing to work overtime when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. (Act 85). Ability to fault-find and repair
down to component level. Competent with hands-on practical work. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Excel, Word and Power Point. Ability to work under
pressure and independently with good report-writing skills, conflict
management and interpersonal skills, as well as excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Sound knowledge of managing a workshop and staff
members including all maintenance facets.
DUTIES : Implement the operational planning of the electrical component, including
preventative maintenance, repairs and report-writing. Manage risks
accordance to the OHSA Act. Responsible for supervising and coordinating all
maintenance functions and tasks within the Sub-District. Perform
administrative related functions, management of budget and expenditure of
component. Mentoring of technical staff in the application of new technologies
and procedures. Ensure effective staff performance management and provide
in-service training as needed. Control over equipment, tools, plant and
materials. Do quality assurance on all maintenance and repair work performed
and keep register of all work done and keep control of job cards. Compile and
submit reports as required and provide input on the operational plan of the
workshop. Provided support in ordering, procurement, and inventory control of
maintenance materials and equipment. Responsible for all preventative
177
maintenance and maintenance requests within the sub-district. Oversee all
maintenance operations in the Sub-District, ensuring optimal performance and
adherence to regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Jendrissek Tel No: (023) 348-1397
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisting
candidates may be subjected to a practical and/or competency test as part of
the interview process. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Brewelskloof Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/258 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA's) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a finance environment. Appropriate working experience in LOGIS and BAS.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Written and
verbal communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook), numeracy and mathematical skills. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Provincial Treasury Instructions and National Treasury
Regulations. Good interpersonal and organisational skills and the ability to
function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Support the management in executing the hospital’s strategic objectives.
Render an effective and efficient Sundry Creditors service. Authorise
transactions on LOGIS and BAS (including payments and journals). Render
effective and efficient debt services (including monthly supplier reconciliations).
Assist with the timely and accurate reporting with regard to the Annual and
Interim Financial statements (Accruals). Interpret, apply, and ensure
compliance with financial policies, regulations, and instructions as practiced in
the public sector. Manage assets and liabilities accounts and petty cash.
Ensure effective and controlled filing and safekeeping of face-value documents
and payment batches. Supervisory functions pertaining to the Creditors
section, as well as planning, training, and monitoring of staff, SPMS, and other
HR-related duties. Attending meetings/forums and being able to give feedback
to the staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Solomons Tel No: (021) 902-8058
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/259 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HRD (MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration and the coordination of
training in the Public Service. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code
B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to travel the province if needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge and understanding
of Skills Development, applicable legislation and policies. Accuracy in
execution and attention to detail. Flexible and willing to handle a variety of
tasks. Meeting skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Able to
function in a highly pressurized environment. Strong organisational skills, and
178
the capacity to plan & control own work environment by setting appropriate
priorities and achieving set objectives within a given timeframe. Computer
literate in MS Office package (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Stakeholder engagement. Implementation of the Workplace Skills plan through
the co-ordination of training. Co-ordination of People Development strategies
and projects: Bursaries, Adult learning, Management Development
programme, Volunteer programme, Internship programme. Supervision of
staff. Co-ordinate orientation & induction for newly appointed employees. Data
management, monitoring and reporting. Provide and ensure effective support
to the People Development component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Martin Tel No: (021) 944-9204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjected to a practical. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three (3) months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/260 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/SUPPLY CHAIN
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, Eden, York Building, Garden Route District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or with appropriate
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience and knowledge in Supply
Chain Management that includes System Management, Warehousing,
Ordering and Assets. Appropriate experience in Finance which includes
Payments, Journals and Reconciliation of Invoices and Statements. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB (manual) drivers’ licence. Willing to
travel and spend long periods away from home while placed at Health
Institutions in the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
Literacy, Knowledge of Accounting, Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
procedures, Knowledge of computerised Financial Management Systems.
DUTIES : Process LOGIS and BAS payments. Process orders. Performing warehouse
functions. Procuring and accounting for assets. Effect transactions on
LOGIS/Syspro system. Effective maintenance of the LOGIS/Syspro system
ENQUIRIES : Email: Eleanor.Vermeulen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/261 : LECTURER (PARAMEDIC) GRADE 1 TO 4 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 per annum
Grade 2: R397 308 per annum
Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1 Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic. -Grade
2: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification or a
recognised National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) qualification or a recognised National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as a Paramedic or B-Tech degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Grade 4: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification or a recognised
National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic or
B-Tech degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as an Emergency Care
Practitioner (ECP). Registration with the professional council: Grade 1:
179
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic with CCA or NDIP. Grade 3:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Paramedic (CCA or NDIP) or ECP. Grade 4: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic (CCA or NDIP)
or ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 Years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
a National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDIP) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. None after registration
with the HPCSA as an ECP. -Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years
after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDIP)
- 17 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s
-10 years after registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid code C1 or code B driver’s license. -Valid professional driver’s
permit (PrDP). Must be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proficient in computer literacy.
Ability to work under pressure in a stressful environment. Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Ability to teach and assess across all College
Programmes. Ability to work in a team in Higher Education.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient teaching on NQF 5,6 and 8 EMC programmes.
Ensure Adherence of students to College, CHE, HPCSA and DHET policies.
Perform front-line vehicle duties with students and other clinical duties. Provide
teaching assistance with other Clinical training programmes where required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Moodley Tel No: (021) 938-6220
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Successful
candidates are expected to obtain a Code C1 driver's license within six months
after appointment. -Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a
practical assessment. -Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/262 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS) (6/8TH
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R297 924 per annum
Grade 2: R347 955 per annum
Grade 3: R407 325 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in respect of RSA-
qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience, after registration with HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist, in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience as an Occupational
Therapist after registration with HPCSA, in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
as an Occupational Therapist after registration with the HPCSA, in respect of
RSA-qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in respect of foreign
180
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Paediatric
experience. Broad knowledge base on managing a variety of Paediatric
medical conditions. Knowledge of developmental, perceptual, cognitive and
physical assessments and interventions for paediatric patients aged 0 – 17
years. Intermediate seating training and experience. Good interpersonal skills,
organizational and planning abilities. Ability to work well within a team, and
cope with the demands of a high-pressured, fast-paced working environment.
Sound knowledge of relevant provincial and national legislation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to deliver an effective and efficient
Occupational Therapy service in the Paediatrics clinical area, as follows:
Provision of OT direct patient care in the paediatric unit. Provide coverage in
the work assessment unit, when required. Complete indirect patient care
activities in the unit. Provision of OT student training in the paediatric unit.
Management of physical and financial resources in the unit. Contribute to the
progress and development of OT services, at Tygerberg Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Ngemntu Tel No: (021) 938-5062, or email:
Sharon.Ngemntu@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointments on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as an Occupational Therapist with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/263 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (WORK ASSESSMENT UNIT)
(6/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R297 924 per annum
Grade 2: R347 955 per annum
Grade 3: R407 325 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in
respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience, after
registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist, in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant
experience as an Occupational Therapist after registration with HPCSA, in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience as an Occupational Therapist after registration with
the HPCSA, in respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience as an Occupational Therapist after registration with the
HPCSA, in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Work assessment and vocational
rehabilitation experience. Basic seating training and experience. Broad
knowledge-base on a variety of medical conditions and management thereof.
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Excellent report writing
skills. Sound knowledge of relevant provincial and national legislation. Good
interpersonal, organizational, and planning abilities.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to deliver an effective and efficient
Occupational Therapy service, as follows: Provision of direct patient care in the
work assessment unit. Providing coverage in the Paediatric clinical area, when
181
necessary. Complete indirect patient care activities in the unit. Provision of OT
student training in the work assessment unit. Management of physical and
financial resources in the unit. Contribute to the progress and development of
OT services, at TBH.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Ngemntu Tel No: (021) 938-5062, or via email:
Sharon.Ngemntu@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointments on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Occupational Therapist with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/264 : WORKS INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL AND EQUIPMENT SAFETY
SERVICES
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or
equivalent, or A N3 and a passed trade test in the building environment, or
Registration as an Engineering Technician. Experience: Appropriate
experience in applying legislation and policies related to Occupational Health
and Safety. Appropriate experience in Construction Safety. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. The successful
candidate will be required to complete a Construction Safety Certification
Course. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Project Management, Research
and support in Policy Development. Practical knowledge of relevant legislation
and policies related to Occupational Health and Safety and Health Care Waste
Management. Good organizational, interpersonal, leadership, conflict
resolution and problem-solving skills. Attention to detail and the ability to work
independently. Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer
systems (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). People management skills.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure WCDHW construction sites comply with relevant Occupational Health
and Safety legislation, codes of practice, standards and norms. Investigate,
report on and resolve Occupational Health and Safety incidents and challenges
at WCDHW construction sites. Facilitate construction of Occupational Health
and Safety training. Promote Occupational Health and Safety awareness at
WCDHW construction sites. Maintain a construction Occupational and Health
and Safety database and develop reports. Develop construction safety
policies, standard operating procedures, norms and standards. Conduct
construction site Occupational Health and Safety inspections to ensure
contractors are complying with the approved Occupational Health and Safety
file.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Thomas Tel No: (021) 918-1233
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/265 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (ELECTRICAL)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Radie Kotze Hospital, Bergriver Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
182
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness
to work overtime and to perform standby duties, including weekends and public
holidays. Physically fit to handle heavy equipment and objects. Must be able
to work on heights i.e. on ladders and scaffolding. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and apply the requirements of the Machinery
and Occupational Health and Safety Act, as well as read, write and follow
written instructions, including manuals and written procedures. Ability to
optimally utilise allocated resources such as tools and materials and be skilled
in the usage of a variety of tools. Conversant with the requirements of the
Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act 85). Ability to conduct
fault-finding mechanical/electrical and do repairs down to component level.
Computer literacy in (i.e. Ms Word, Excel, e-mail and internet use).
DUTIES : Installation and Maintenance. Fault Finding and Repairs. Financial
Management. Human Resources Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Julius Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/266 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (PLUMBING) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid vehicle driver’s license. Perform
standby duties and work overtime when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Conversance with the Machinery and Occupational Health
and Safety Act. Computer literacy. Learn and comply with in-house systems
and procedures.
DUTIES : Repair and install systems in the plumbing field. Supervise work schedule for
the division and assist in supervising and training of staff. Responsible for the
necessary administrative functions of the workshop. Render assistance to
Artisan Foreman with regard to all functions (including administrative work) of
the division and give feedback to supervisor on service and maintenance
issues. Exercise control over tools and materials. Learn and comply with in-
house systems and procedures. Attend to emergency breakdowns after hours
and stand in when Artisan foreman is off duty.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mgcodo Tel No: (021) 404-6251
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/267 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence and willingness to
183
travel within the district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Basic understanding of People Management.
Knowledge and experience of PERSAL and relevant functions.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to personnel administration, e.g.
appointments, resignations, transfers, pension administration, salary
administration, leave administration, distribution of paysheets/payslips, debt
management, housing, verification of documents and qualifications. Assist with
coordination of professional bodies for the district office and for all sub districts.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL (i.e Overtime & other
allowances) Assist with all personnel related audits for the district. Attend to HR
enquiries from sub districts and/or refer to relevant official. Audit personnel and
leave records. Performing of PILIR Administration duties and coordination
thereof. Performing of ORW related duties and other enquiries thereof. Assist
with compilation of training slides and other relevant information sessions
matters. File personnel data, policies, regulations and circulars. Effective
support service to Supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DW September Tel No: (023) 348-8100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Cape Winelands District Office, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/268 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate Supply Chain
Management experience including Procurement of Goods and Services.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team. Knowledge of LOGIS, ESL (Essential Supplier List) and
Electronic Procurement System systems. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National, Provincial Treasury, Regulations and
Policies. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management and Finance administrative
processes.
DUTIES : Demand and Acquisitioning of goods and services including drafting of
specifications and conducting site meetings. Ensure Audit Compliance. Internal
control and Supply Chain Management Reporting. Support to Supervisor,
Team and end users in terms of procurement related queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Silwanyana Tel No: (021) 508 7451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/269 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a healthcare
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/ C1) driver’s
license and willingness to travel for official duties as required. Willingness to
work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong administrative and
organisational skills, with proven ability to manage diaries, coordinate
meetings, and support senior management. Computer literacy in MS Word,
184
Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook is essential for preparing correspondence,
reports, and maintaining filing systems. Effective communication, interpersonal
skills, and a high level of confidentiality, discretion, and accountability. Strong
problem-solving skills and critical thinking abilities with a clear service-oriented
approach. Practical knowledge of record management, filing, and accurate
data capturing. Knowledge in patient administration systems (Clinicom,
HECTIS).
DUTIES : Provide executive assistance to the Medical and Clinical Manager by managing
diaries, i.e. handle correspondence, maintain accurate filing and office
systems. Coordinate meetings and events, prepare agendas, record minutes,
and follow up on action items to ensure accountability. Support HR
administration through accurate staff record-keeping, submission of leave and
overtime, and assisting with training and induction processes. Manage office
resources, order supplies, maintain equipment, and ensure compliance with
audit requirements. Communicate and liaise and serve as the first point of
contact for staff, stakeholders, and service users, Draft official correspondence,
and safeguard confidential documents. Compile reports, maintain compliance
records, and support audit preparation. Engage in personal and professional
development to strengthen capacity and uphold professional standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Abrahams Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying this post. Candidates may
be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/270 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Franshoek Groendal Clinic (stationed at Kylemore Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work 8-hours (i.e. Monday - Friday) and also overtime when
required. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literate (MS Word,
Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Supportive administration functions and register patients on the Patient
Administration System (PHCIS). Responsible for folder management: file,
retrieve, archiving and disposal of folders. Maintain patient appointment
system. Responsible for effective management of communication (telephonic
enquiries). Data management and capturing. Supportive admin functions
including e.g. preparation of folders for the next day, completion registers, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Sub District, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/271 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (ADMISSIONS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in patient
administration/admissions at a hospital. Inherent requirements of the job: A
valid driver’s license (B/EC/C1). Must be prepared to work 12-hour shifts (i.e.
night duty, weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short notice.
Ability to work in a physically demanding environment. Competencies
185
(knowledge/skills): Sound communication skills, with internal and external
clients (verbal and written). Numerical skills and the ability to maintain
confidentiality. Knowledge of electronic patient administration system Clinicom.
Computer literacy in Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook). Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently.
DUTIES : Assess patients according to the means test when admitting patients, update
patient information and ensure availability of patient folders. Responsible for
sound cash management for revenue control which includes the receipt of
money, issue of accounts, receipt and safekeeping of money. Open and
maintain patient folders and loan of patient folders to relevant departments on
the Clinicom system. Responsible for handling of patient enquiries. File patient
folders and documents daily. Record keeping, trace old folders, compile new
folders and destruction of folders. Report IOD and MVA cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/272 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management environment. Appropriate experience in LOGIS and the
EPS. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid B/C1/EB driver’s license. Ability to
work in a physically demanding environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the LOGIS System, Asset Management
functions and functional experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic
purchasing system (EPS). Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good
communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration, such as inviting of quotes
on EPS, placing of orders, preparing quotes for Quotation Committee and
follow-up with suppliers. Asset Management to be performed in the Overstrand
Sub-district which includes proper management of assets pertaining to annual
asset count, updating asset register, disposals, capturing relevant
documentation on LOGIS and keeping updated filling of all relevant
documentation. Monthly BAS and LOGIS reconciliation reporting. Receiving
services and preparing batches for payment. Ensure compliance to all relevant
laws and prescripts related to the Supply Chain. Handle all telephonic and
written queries from relevant suppliers and end users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 312 1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/273 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in line with the Duties (key
result areas/outputs). Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to manage
multiple priorities and work independently. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
General office administrative skills. Knowledge of Clinical Services, Radiology,
Wards, and Pharmacy. medico-legal documentation (J88 forms), Knowledge of
RAF processes. Strong organizational and communication skills. Working
knowledge of HR processes, Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook)
and familiarity with government systems.
186
DUTIES : General Office management. Prepare and verify Commuted Overtime (COT)
and additional overtime forms for doctors. Prepare monthly Subsistence and
Travel (S&T) claims for staff. Ensure timely submission to HR and follow up on
non-compliance. Maintain an accurate leave register for all staff. Ensure leave
forms are captured, submitted, and signed for by HR. Support Radiology,
Wards, Supply Chain, and Pharmacy when needed. Manage RAF
documentation and submit locum requests. Manage J88 forms and medical
documentation and liaise with legal entities (NPA, private lawyers) and
maintain form registers. Prepare affidavits when necessary. Attend relevant
training courses. Orientate, train, and supervise interns within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Brownbridge Tel No: (022) 487-9200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/274 : FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
Grade10 or ABET Level 4. Experience: Appropriate Food Service Experience
in an Industrial Food Services Unit, within a hospital environment. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s licence Willingness to work shifts (weekends and public holidays).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (read, speak and
write) and numerical skills. Knowledge and skills with regards to the operational
procedures in an Industrial Food Services Unit. Appropriate knowledge of
WCHD Food Service Policy and monitoring process, hygiene, occupational
health, HACCP and safety principles and the incumbent must be able to work
according to rules and standards and meet deadlines. Computer literate in
Microsoft Office (Excel, Word and Outlook), (Attach proof or mention it in the
CV) Ability to effectively multi-task, function independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Implement standard menu, production planning and correct procedures for
receipt, storage, preparation, portioning and distribution of food. Implement,
maintain and effectively supervise safety and security measures as well as
hygiene and infection control. Implement and maintain and effective food
services financial management system to ensure that food expenditure
remains within the budget. HR relative matters which include, compiling of duty
rosters, keeping of statistics, leave planning, disciplinary process, allocating
tasks, coordinating work schedules and SPMS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M De Koker Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subject to competency testing. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/275 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (PLUMBING)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience and knowledge in Plumbing field. Inherent
requirements of the job: Required to do standby duties and work overtime
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Good communication Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), work
independently as well as in a team and it would be required for the officer to
learn & comply with in-house systems & procedures. Strict adherence to the
Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Perform general plumbing duties and maintenance. Effectively install and
maintain all water pipes, sewerage system, valves and stopcocks. Unblock
187
drains, toilets, basins and sluices. Assist Artisans in the performance of their
duties, and clean areas where work has been carried out. Detect and repair
faults in the working environment. Complete and return repair requisitions and
assist in ordering and controlling the workshop, materials and tools. Supervise
work schedule for the division and assist in supervising and training of staff.
Assist other departments when it’s required
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mgcodo Tel No: (021) 404-6251
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/276 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10/Std 8 certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of maintenance of Building/ Electrical /
Plumbing / Air-Conditioning / Carpentry / Painting / Mechanical components &
related fixtures as an Artisan Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability
to operate and use required tools and equipment skilfully and safely. Ability to
perform heavy physical labour. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Must be
willing to work on a rotation basis in the artisan Cadre`s as the need arises.
Ability to perform standby and overtime duties when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Acts, NBR and SABA 1475.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance and repairs of related fixtures and components.
Maintenance, installations, repair modify and manufacture items, equipment,
and machines under the supervision of the Supervisor. Routine maintenance
and repairs of equipment, plant, and tools Maintenance & repairs of furniture
equipment, carpentry, and painting. Checks safety equipment and replaces
components such as washers, gaskets, and filters. Assist with repairs and
emergency breakdowns (including after-hours repairs). Clean areas where
work has been carried out. Ensure that all tools and materials are available
before commencing any tasks. Assist the artisan Cadre in the execution of their
respective duties. Effective support to Supervisor. Manage & control over tools,
equipment, material, and stock. Responsible for basic administration work as
well as completing job cards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Petersen Tel No: (021) 503-5036
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/277 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience in general electrical work. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to perform overtime duty when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure. Basic knowledge of
electrical/mechanical engineering. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Electrical repairs and general maintenance of plant, equipment and buildings
of the hospital. Maintain plant-rooms, plant, equipment and work area in a
188
clean and safe condition. Assist Artisans with maintenance, repairs and
installation projects. Complete and return repair requisitions and further keep
record of all repairs. Assist in ordering and controlling the workshop, materials
and tools. Train and develop staff. Clean areas where work has been carried
out.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mgcodo Tel No: (021) 404-6251
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/278 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (PAINTING) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience of doing building maintenance and repairs by painting,
glazing, and spray-painting equipment and furniture. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to plan (pro-active), work independently as well as in
a team and it would be required for the officer to learn & comply with in-house
systems & procedures. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety
Act.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance and repairs by painting, glazing, and spray-
painting of hospital buildings. Assist with repairs and emergency breakdowns,
and with the repairs of broken windows, furniture and equipment. Assist with
the planning and décor of new installations and alterations, control and
requisitioning of material and parts. Clean areas where work has been carried
out. Ensure that all tools and materials are available before commencing any
tasks. Assist the artisan in the execution of their respective duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mgcodo Tel No: (021) 404-6251
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/279 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY FEMALE)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows for registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as an Enrolled Nurse Assistant.
Registration with the professional council: Registered with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience after
registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience after registration
with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse Assistant. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, public holidays, after-hours, and
weekend cover for nursing. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written).
Good communication, planning and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a
multidisciplinary team-context. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP's, policies and guidelines.
189
DUTIES : Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Assist patients with
activities of daily living (physical care). To provide elementary clinical nursing
care Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-development
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Solomons Tel No: (021) 860-2504 or email:
anthea.solomons@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Paarl Hospital, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/280 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Kyamandi CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to
work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile and when
needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate, capture
patient information, check results and capture data. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and
standards.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
190
POST 40/281 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a health
related environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Basic literacy, both
written and verbal. Willingness to work shifts (day and night duty), including
weekends and public holidays. Physically fit to lift heavy objects, push heavy
trolleys, bend down, and stay on feet for long hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work in a
cooperative way within a team context.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver soiled and clean linen and packs to and from the theatre
and wards. Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and
promote/adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontamination, pack, and sterilisation of instruments, linen, and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, disinfecting
instrument washing machines, and autoclaves. Maintain equipment in optimum
working condition. Cost-effective utilisation of resources, monitoring, control,
and maintaining adequate stock levels. Report and assist with the investigation
of lost instruments/equipment. Support to the supervisor and team members.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Stoltz Tel No: (021) 902 -8010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/282 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience on handling of linen in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to do physical hard work and stand for long
hours. Willingness to relieve in other departments when required. Willingness
to work shifts, weekends, public holidays and overtime when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal, as well as written
communication skills. Must be physically able to lift heavy objects and stay for
long hours on your feet. Must be able to do laundry duties, i.e. stocktaking,
delivering linen and assisting audits in wards (hospital). Knowledge of stock
and infection control.
DUTIES : Ensure that wards and institutions are provided with clean linen timeously.
Assist with loading of linen in/out of laundry vehicles. Assist with delivering of
linen to different departments or wards. Collection of soiled linen from the
departments. Counting of linen daily and perform monthly stock taking. Support
supervisor and relieve in other departments when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Van Vuuren Tel No: (022) 709-5096
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/283 : GROUNDSMAN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a health-related environment. Appropriate
experience of workshop tools. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
travel. Physically fit to do manual labour. Willingness to work overtime.
191
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools, parts, and materials.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Knowledge of Occupational Health
and Safety.
DUTIES : Effective maintenance and cleaning of grounds. Moving of assets and
equipment in a safe manner. Effective removal of domestic and medical waste.
Clear areas where work has been carried out. Responsible for the maintenance
of machinery and equipment within the grounds department. Ensure that tools
and materials are available when needed. Administration and support to
colleagues and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Scholtz Tel No: (021) 902-8061
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Groundsman posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
POST 40/284 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Central Karoo District Office, (Chronic Medicine), (Stationed at Beaufort West
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in transportation of personnel and goods. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid code (C1/EC) (Code 8) driver’s licence. Valid Public Driving
Permit (PDP). Willingness to work overtime and to perform standby duties.
Willingness to perform administrative and relief duties when needed in the
Support component of the Institution. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge of Government Motor Transport Handbook 1 of 2019
and Circular 4 of 2000. Appropriate knowledge of routine, maintenance,
inspections for defects on vehicles, and safe driving skills. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently, unsupervised and
in a team. Good interpersonal, communication skills. Ability to handle heavy
objects.
DUTIES : Transport goods, services, clients and personnel from one point to another.
Maintenance of prescribed logbooks, trip authorities and administrative duties
of driving. Conduct routine maintenance, inspecting on vehicles and timely
reporting of defects. Adhere to Departmental codes and procedures. Ensure
that all vehicles are kept clean and tidy. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M De Koker Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subject to competency testing. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
192