PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 41 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 07 NOVEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST: DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT, CONSERVATION AND TOURISM. Kindly note that
the following X3 posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 39 dated 24
October 2025, Assistant Director: Graphic Designer with Ref No: 23/DEDECT/2025/NW,
Senior Communication Officer: Media Liaison with Ref No: 35/ DEDECT/2025/NW and
Graphic Designer with Ref No: 42/DEDECT/2025/NW; the posts should be amended as
follows: Assistant Director: Graphic Designer with Ref No: 23/DEDECT/2025/NW, The
job title should read Graphic Designer and not Assistant Director. Senior
Communications Officer: Media Liaison with Ref No: 35/DEDECT/2025/NW, Salary:
R397 116 per annum (Level 08). Graphic Designer with Ref No: 42/DEDECT/2025/NW,
The job title should read Communication Officer and not Graphic Designer. The closing
date is extended to 14 November 2025.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNITY SAFETY: 1. Kindly take note that the posts advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 33 dated 12 September 2025, The Department of Transport and
Community Safety hereby addresses the omission that were made in the above-
mentioned Circular. We would like to clarify that the following posts are specifically
designated for Persons with Disabilities: Administrative Officer: Facilities and Auxiliary
Services with Ref No: LDTCS M2/2025, Administrative Officer: Operating Licenses with
Ref No: LDTCS C1/2025, Administration Clerk: Natis with Ref No: LDTCS W4/2025,
Finance Clerk: Contravention and General Admin with Ref No: LDTCS M4/2025 for
Mopani must use Ref No: LDTCS M7/2025, Switchboard Operator Ref No: LDTCS
S5/2025, for Sekhukhune must use Ref No: LDTCS S4/2025. 2. Please note that the
post of Transport Safety Officer: Sekhukhune with Ref No: LDTCS S3/2025 has been
removed from the current advertisement. This is due to its prior inclusion in Circular 24
of 2025. 3. The Department also noted some discrepancies in terms of reference
numbers on the Public Service Vacancy Circular and Departmental circular. The
applicants must use the following reference numbers: State Accountant: Revenue and
Debt x2 Mopani (Ref no. LDTCS M3/2025), Vhembe (Ref no. LDTCS V5/2025. The
Notch is R325 101 per annum (Level 7). Finance Clerk: Contravention and General
Admin, Mopani (Ref: LDTCS M4/2025) and (Ref LDTCS M7/2025). The applicants must
use Ref LDTCS M7/2025), Registry Clerk: Records and Registry Services, Mopani (Ref
no. LDTCS 6/2025), Tradesman Aid: Vhembe (Ref no. LDTCS V8/2025), Groundsman
x2 Vhembe (Ref no. V9/2025). Administrative Officer: Contravention and General Admin
x 2 (Vhembe and Waterberg). Waterberg Ref. LDTCS W4/2025), Administration Clerk:
NATIS. Waterberg Ref LDTCS W5/2025., Administration Clerk: Contravention and
General Admin. Mopani Ref LDTCS M5/2025, Switchboard Operator. Sekhukhune (Ref.
LDTCS S4/2025).4. Please note that the closing date for applications has been extended
to 21 November 2025, those who have already submitted their applications in response
to the initial advertisement do not need to reapply. Their submissions will be considered
as part of the updated process.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES A 04 - 11
DEFENCE B 12 - 29
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR C 30 - 42
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT D 43 - 45
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE E 46 - 47
HEALTH F 48 - 49
HOME AFFAIRS G 50 - 53
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT H 54 - 57
LAND REFORM AND REFORM DEVELOPMENT I 58 - 59
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY J 60 - 77
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT K 78 - 83
NATIONAL TREASURY L 84 - 90
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE M 91 - 96
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE N 97 - 99
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT O 100 - 102
TOURISM P 103 - 107
TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION Q 108 - 110
TRANSPORT R 111 - 112
WATER AND SANITATION S 113 - 114
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG T 115 - 116
KWAZULU NATAL U 117 - 118
LIMPOPO V 119 - 123
MPUMALANGA W 124 - 127
NORTHERN CAPE X 128 - 138
WESTERN CAPE Y 139 - 181
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
APPLICATIONS : Centre: National Head Office: Department of Correctional Services, Post
Advertisement Section, Private Bag X136, Pretoria, 0001 OR hand deliver at:
124 WF Nkomo Street, Poyntons Building, Cnr WF Nkomo and Sophie De
Bruyn Street, Pretoria, 0001 (Previous: Cnr Church and Schubart Street) OR
you can email your application to NationalOfficeHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174.Candidates
must comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s should be
aligned to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert requirements and
responsibilities.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 @ 15h45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to
ensure that their application reaches DCS before the closing date.
NOTE : For the re-advertised post, candidates who previously applied need to re-apply.
All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The
Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The
Department will take into consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996) and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies.
It is our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these positions. In support of this strategy,
applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status on the application
form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific
determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been declared
medically unfit will not be considered. Please take note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the shortlisted candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application is unsuccessful. Please do not call the
department to enquire about the progress of your application. Applicants must
note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that
their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and
criminal records verification. Appointment will be provisional, pending the issue
of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security clearance, your
appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated. Fingerprints may be
taken on the day of the interview. Applications: Applications must be submitted
on the Z83 form (Public Service application form) obtainable from any Public
Service department and must be completed in full. Only a detailed CV should
be attached to your application form. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies not older than 6 months of qualifications and
other related documents on or before the day of the interview. Please send a
complete application for the post you apply for on a pdf format, stating the
correct reference for the position you are interested in. Requirement for valid
driver’s licence is not applicable to applicants with a disability. With regard to
the SMS post, a pre-entry certificate from the National School of Government
(NSG) is required from all applicants prior to appointment. The full details of
the SMS pre-entry course are obtainable on: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the department. Following
the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessment). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tool. Kindly indicate the reference number on the subject line for
emailed applications. Indicate the reference number and position you are
applying for on your application form (Z83) and post OR email your complete
application to the address as indicated below. The Department of Correctional
Services reserves the right not to fill any of these advertised posts.
4
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/01 : DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS REF NO: HO 2025/11/01
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Centre: National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Logistics/Financial Management or equivalent. [5] years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for entry
into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National
School of Government (NSG) is compulsory. Computer literate. Valid driver’s
licence. Required knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice
Cluster. Understanding of public service policy and related legislative
framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as
amended). Relevant experience in regulatory framework governing public
service planning processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining
mechanisms and traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective
human resource management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the
human resources legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies and
Attributes: Policy development, analysis, monitoring, evaluation and
implementation advice. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
policies, mandates and prescripts. Financial Management. Applied strategic
thinking. Knowledge and strong understanding of the PFMA. Project
Management, presentation and report writing. Service delivery standards,
project and programme management. Decision making and problem solving.
Networking/liaison with stakeholders. Negotiation, organizing and
communication skills. Conflict management, analytical thinking and Information
collection.
DUTIES : Manage the logistics and assets of the department and the formulation of
policies in line with relevant legislation, regulations and frameworks. Mange the
inventory of the department. Oversee the effective implementation of logistic
policies. Formulate policies pertaining to logistical services and the
procurement process of semi-official tele-phones. Manage the electronic
implementation and maintenance of logistics policies and procedures within
the PAS 26. Act as vice-chairman for the forum of logistical aspects (forum
involving the public service). Manage loss control and disposal management
in line with relevant legislation, regulations, frameworks and departmental
policies and procedures. Manage and oversee departmental asset losses.
Manage and oversee the disposal of assets. Manage the transport of the
department in line with relevant legislation, regulations, frameworks and
departmental policies and procedures. Monitor the coordination of subsidized
vehicles. Manage the effective and efficient use of departmental transport.
Manage the maintenance of vehicles and losses. Manage and oversee the
provisioning administration effective system training. Manage provisioning
administration system training. Manage provisioning administration operational
training. Management of human resources, finance, assets and performance
information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 41/02 : DIRECTOR: GENDER AND EMPLOYMENT EQUITY REF NO: HO
2025/11/02
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Centre: National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration/Business Management/Business Administration or equivalent
qualification. 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a
similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
compulsory and should be submitted prior to appointment. Computer literate.
Valid driver’s licence. Required knowledge Understanding of the dynamics of
the Justice Cluster. Understanding of public service policy and related
legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Relevant experience in regulatory framework governing
5
public service planning processes. Extensive experience in collective
bargaining mechanisms and traceable experience in ensuring efficient and
effective human resource management. In-depth knowledge and experience
of the human resources legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies
and Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. Financial management. Change
management. People management and empowerment. Programme and
project management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem
solving and decision making. Transformation management. Influencing and
impact. Facilitation, conflict management and conceptual skills. Diversity
management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations and
time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy development
and implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Develop the business plan in line with the strategic objectives of the
department. Ensure mainstreaming and integration of gender issues in the
departmental strategies and programs. Assist in building solid gender equity
and equality understanding within the department. Develop, monitor and
ensure the promotion and implementation of strategies for gender
mainstreaming and promote women empowerment, gender equity and
equality. Plan and establish a framework for stakeholders’ interface and
participation. Provide guidance on the development of a new employment
equity (EE) plan and monitor implementation thereof. Management of human
resources, finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 41/03 : DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HO 2025/11/03
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Centre: National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Social
Science or equivalent. Five (5) years’ experience at middle management or
senior managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for entry into the
Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory and should be submitted prior to
appointment. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required knowledge:
Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster. Understanding of public
service policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant experience in
regulatory framework governing public service planning processes. Extensive
experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and traceable experience in
ensuring efficient and effective human resource management. In-depth
knowledge and experience of the human resources legislation and regulatory
framework. Competencies and Attributes: Financial management skills.
Strategic capability and leadership. Policy development. Communication.
Project and programme management. Transformation and change
management, Client orientation and customer focus. Problem solving and
analysis. Service delivery Innovation. Decision making, People management
and empowerment. Integrity and honesty. Confidentiality. Interpersonal
relations. Assertiveness and ability to network. Diplomacy, tactful, influence
and impact.
DUTIES : Provide guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the division. Assist in establishing the strategic direction of the
component to ensure alignment with its business plans. Align individual
performance to the strategic business objectives as outlined in the components
balance scorecard. Formulate, implement and report on all strategic
frameworks in the area of functional responsibility. Effectively deal with and
ensure consolidation of all strategic reports. Ensure and oversee the
development and implementation of policies, directives, acts and regulations.
Provide leadership and high-level coordination of the workflow in the office of
the Commissioner. Develop and implement sound, effective and efficient
administrative systems and work flow procedures. Ensure and maintain good
relations within the department and relevant stakeholders. Management of
human resources, finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
6
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 41/04 : DIRECTOR: LITIGATIONS REF NO: HO 2025/11/04
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A degree in Law (LLB) (NQF level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognized
by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at middle management or senior
managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory. Admission as advocate or attorney will be
an added advantage. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with
emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant
experience in regulatory framework governing public service planning
processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and
traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective human resource
management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the human resources
legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies and Attributes: Financial
management skills. Strategic capability and leadership. Policy development.
Communication. Project and programme management. Transformation and
change management, Client orientation and customer focus. Problem solving
and analysis. Service delivery Innovation. Decision making, People
management and empowerment. Integrity and honesty. Confidentiality.
Interpersonal relations. Assertiveness and ability to network. Diplomacy,
tactful, influence and impact.
DUTIES : Manage litigation risks in the department. Develop and implement litigation risk
mitigation plans within DCS. Represent the department’s interests on litigation
matters. Determination of culpability of officials who caused liability to the
Department. Provide legal advice to management on prominent legal issues
involving the department. Conduct litigation trends analysis and advise
management on high risk areas as well as the required interventions. Manage
contingent liabilities for the department. Provide leadership and strategic
direction within the chief directorate. Provide strategic direction and leadership
to the directorate to ensure alignment with departmental objectives. Develop
operational plans to give strategic direction to the directorate by managing &
coordination of activities. Align individual performance to the strategic business
objectives as outlined in the component’s operational plans. Implement and
report on strategic frameworks in the area of functional responsibility. Monitor
and evaluate the attainability & sustainability of performance standards as per
departmental objectives. Provision of legal support to management for decision
making. Ensure effective management of the directorate in order to ensure
effective service delivery. Take decisive actions on various legal matters and
assess contentious and controversial issues. Establish value adding relations
with internal and external stakeholders. Management of human resources,
finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 41/05 : DIRECTOR: CODE ENFORCEMENT REF NO: HO 2025/11/05
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A degree in Law (LLB) (NQF level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognized
by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at middle management or senior
managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory. Admission as advocate or attorney will be
an added advantage. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with
emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant
experience in regulatory framework governing public service planning
processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and
7
traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective human resource
management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the human resources
legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies and Attributes: Financial
management skills, strategic capability and leadership. Policy development,
communication, project and programme management. Transformation and
change management. Client orientation and customer focus. Problem solving
and analysis. Service delivery innovation and decision making. People
management and empowerment. Integrity and honesty. Confidentiality and
interpersonal relations. Understanding of public service policy and legislative
framework. Assertiveness and ability to network. Diplomacy and tactful.
Influence and impact.
DUTIES : Ensure effective risk management within the directorate in compliance with the
risk management plan of the department. Conduct disciplinary
hearings/appeals/conciliations/arbitrations against transgressing officials
relating to corruption, theft, fraud and other serious malpractices in compliance
with the disciplinary code and procedure. Monitor implementation of sanctions
imposed during disciplinary hearings. Capacity building for chairpersons and
initiators of disciplinary hearing cases. Responsible for ad-hoc tasks such as
the development/updating of the correctional services delegations, correctional
services act/regulations and incarceration framework. Management of human
resources, finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 41/06 : DIRECTOR: AREA COMMISSIONER
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West region Limpopo, Mpumalanga and
North West region: Thohoyandou Ref No: HO 2025/11/06
Western Cape: Drakenstein Ref No: HO 2025/11/07
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration/LLB/Criminology/Criminal Justice/Social Sciences or equivalent
qualification. (5) years’ experience at a middle management/senior managerial
level. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS)
obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory and
should be submitted prior to appointment. Computer literate. Valid driver’s
licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice
Cluster. Understanding of public service policy and related legislative
framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as
amended). Relevant experience in regulatory framework governing public
service planning processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining
mechanisms and traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective
human resource management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the
human resources legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies and
Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. Financial management. Change
management. People management and empowerment. Programme and
project management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem
solving and decision making. Transformation management. Influencing and
impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict management and conceptual
skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal
relations and time management. Ac-countability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy
development and implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Oversee the effective functioning of incarceration and corrections, parole
boards, corporate ser-vices, development programmes, care services,
correctional centres and community corrections within the management area.
Oversee the administration of security systems/programmes including
comprehensive risk assessments and programmes to ensure safety. Ensure
the implementation and adherence to policies and procedures within the
management area. Establish and maintain effective relationships with key
stakeholders within the geographical location of the management area.
Effective management of court appearance of remand detainees. Management
of the operational risks within the management area. Promotion of social
responsibility and development of all offenders and parolees subjected to
community corrections. Management of performance information.
Management of human resource, finance and assets.
8
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 41/07 : DIRECTOR: HEAD OF CORRECTIONAL CENTRE REF NO: HO 2025/11/08
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Gauteng region: Kgosi Mampuru II Local Remand Detention Facility
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration or equivalent. [5] Years’ of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services
(SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory.
Top secret security classification will be an added advantage. Successful
completion of corrections science learnership/basic training. Experience and
knowledge of the South African Correctional System and Criminal Justice
System. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge:
Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster. Understanding of public
service policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant experience in
regulatory framework governing public service planning processes. Extensive
experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and traceable experience in
ensuring efficient and effective human resource management. In-depth
knowledge and experience of the human resources legislation and regulatory
framework. Competencies and Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Financial and transformation
management. Policy development. Project and programme management.
Facilitation. Change management. Problem solving and decision making. Time
management and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Coaching and
mentoring. Good work ethics. Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations. Ability to
work long hours. Diplomacy and tactful. Influence and impact. Accountability.
Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Management of all aspects of the Correctional Centre on a day to day basis
through the implementation of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998
as amended. Manage the implementation of the imperatives of the White Paper
on Corrections. Management of case management administration, security,
development and care, unit management and case management committees
by ensuring that admission and releases are conducted, property store is
secured and reconciliation of offender’s cash, fines and bail payments. Manage
operational support services. Foster a working relationship with the Justice
Cluster and the community. Monitor, evaluate and take appropriate action in
relation to outcomes on the risk trends. Manage internal security by ensuring
that standby lists are available, sufficient security in centre and searching is
done continuously according to registers etc. Manage external security by
ensuring that utilization of offenders are at work teams, officials are performing
guard duty and manning of tower posts. Manage the development and care
functions of offenders. Manage social work services, spiritual/moral
development, health functions and hospital services for inmates. Ensure that a
consistent system of activities within the centre is developed and regular
committee sittings do take place. Management of performance information.
Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 41/08 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: HO 2025/11/09
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A degree in Law (LLB) (NQF level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognized
by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at middle management or senior
managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory. Admission as advocate or attorney will be
an added advantage. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with
emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant
9
experience in regulatory framework governing public service planning
processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and
traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective human resource
management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the human resources
legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies and Attributes:
Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative framework,
Assertiveness, and knowledge of relevant mandates and prescripts. Financial
management skills, strategic capability and leadership. Legal drafting and
advice. Communication skills, project and programme management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Problem solving and analysis. Service delivery
innovation. People management and empowerment. Integrity and honesty.
Confidentiality.
DUTIES : Manage the drafting, editing and checking of legal contracts in commercial and
international agreements, memoranda of understanding, memoranda of
agreement, service level agreements and implementation protocols. Facilitate
concession agreements. Provide legal advice on processes/procedures
pertaining to commercial and international agreements. Ensure that the
interests of the department are safeguarded in all agreements and memoranda
of understanding. Provide advice to directorate contract management on
compliance matters. Establish reporting requirements that need to be followed
by the participants. Advise department on its contractual rights and obligations
in all agreements. Manage litigation in contract related matters. Strengthen the
department’s legal capacity during negotiations on agreements, contracts and
litigation. Oversee and manage a detailed legal analysis of contracts. Provide
legal advice and support to management regarding interpretations, legal
liability exercising of power and other legal matters. Advise and ensure
compliance by the department to international organisation’s requirements.
Monitor the implementation and provide advice on the interpretation and
application of all pieces of legislation. En-sure the execution of judicial acts e.g.
write offs/recovery of debts, losses and damages to state property/assets and
settlements with persons entered into legal relationship with the department.
Draft documents for state attorneys and state law advisors to provide formal
legal advice/opinion to the department. Conduct legal research continuously
for legal opinion drafting. Assist the department in developing sound policies,
i.e .legal support in relation to policy formulation, by vetting, editing policies and
legal certification to ensure that the departmental policies are in conformity and
compliance with the constitution and other national legislation and directives.
Liaise, negotiate with and instruct the offices of the State Attorney, Chief State
Law Advisor and Solicitor-General and private practicing lawyers and
advocates in private practice. Represent the department at various fora on
legal matters. Develop working relationships across diverse groups of
stakeholders. Management of performance information. Management of
human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 41/09 : DIRECTOR: CORRECTIONAL ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HO 2025/11/10
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Behavioural/Social Sciences or equivalent. [5] Years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment. Exposure and sound
knowledge of the South African Correctional and Criminal Justice system. A
certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from
the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory. Computer literacy.
Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of
the Justice Cluster. Understanding of public service policy and related
legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act [PFMA], with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Relevant experience in regulatory framework governing
public service planning processes. Extensive experience in collective
bargaining mechanisms and traceable experience in ensuring efficient and
effective human resource management. In-depth knowledge and experience
of the human resources legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies
and Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Financial management. Facilitation. Change
10
management. Problem solving and decision making. Time management.
Understanding of public service policy and legislative framework. Service
delivery and innovation. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Knowledge and skills in
project management. Ability to perform under pressure and analysis of
performance information.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction on strategy, annual performance
plans and activities. Facilitate the development, review and enhancement of
policies, policy procedures, operating standards and systems and
administrative controls and reporting tools for incarceration and corrections.
Provide support and monitor compliance with applicable departmental
legislation and policies with regard to implementation of unit management and
provision of work opportunities for sentenced offenders. Coordinate the
strategy to down manage overcrowding. Monitor compliance and service
delivery improvement through monitoring and evaluation visits to regions.
Attend cluster meetings and other meetings with various stakeholders. Liaise
and coordinate with internal role players, inter-governmental and non-
governmental institutions. Management of human resource, finance and
assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
11
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/10 : REGISTRY CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: GSU/01/41/25/01
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation Gauteng Signal Unit. Geo Location: JSB Garrison
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in records administration. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Basic Computer literate, communication skills, ability to interpret
relevant directives and instructions/ guidelines, problem solving and analytical
thinking, planning and organising own work and that of subordinates.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Supervising of filing office. Apply effective control over the receipt, circulation,
record keeping and dispatching of official documentation and correspondence.
Ensure supervision of the dispatch Section. Ensure that the receiving,
processing, record keeping and handling of official documents are in
accordance with policy and procedure. Exercise the provision of guidelines for
Record Administrators. The guiding of clients with regards to Record
Management procedures such as the using of records classification systems.
The planning of the work of subordinates. The training of subordinates. The
quality control of the Record Management services provided by the Unit.
Conducting spot checks. Supervising over archiving of files in accordance with
policy and procedure. The providing of inputs to the Unit with regards to work
procedures. The assisting with regards to career development of subordinates
12
and the control of disposal of records (i.e. transfers of closed records to the
DOD Documentation Centre or destruction of identified records).
ENQUIRIES : WO1 M.M. Lethoko Tel No: (012) 674 4832
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Gauteng Signal Unit, Private Bag X1038, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or hand deliver to Stephanus Schoeman Street, Thaba
Tshwane, Pretoria 0144 or email to hennie.bothma@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/11 : REGISTRY CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: SIGFMN/01/41/25/02
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation MOD Signal Unit. Geo Location: LIW Lyttelton.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in records administration. Special requirements (skills
needed): Basic Computer literate, communication skills, ability to interpret
relevant directives and instructions/ guidelines, problem solving and analytical
thinking, planning and organising own work and that of subordinates.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Supervising of filing office. Apply effective control over the receipt, circulation,
record keeping and dispatching of official documentation and correspondence.
Ensure supervision of the dispatch Section. Ensure that the receiving,
processing, record keeping and handling of official documents are in
accordance with policy and procedure. Exercise the provision of guidelines for
Record Administrators. The guiding of clients with regards to Record
Management procedures such as the using of records classification systems.
The planning of the work of subordinates. The training of subordinates. The
quality control of the Record Management services provided by the Unit.
Conducting spot checks. Supervising over archiving of files in accordance with
policy and procedure. The providing of inputs to the Unit with regards to work
procedures. The assisting with regards to career development of subordinates
and the control of disposal of records (i.e. transfers of closed records to the
DOD Documentation Centre or destruction of identified records).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C.S. van Schalkwyk Tel No: (012) 355-5629
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Signal Formation, MOD Signal Unit, Private
Bag X161, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to 630 Armscor Building, Cnr Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or email to
Mageti.Mohlala@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/12 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: 5SAIBN/01/41/25/03
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : 5 SAI Bn, Lady Smith
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ relevant experience in human resource management. Special
requirements (Skills needed). Computer skills. Planning and organising.
Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the public service. Knowledge of working
procedure in terms of working environment.
DUTIES : Supervise and take more complex implementation and maintenance of Human
Resource administration practices and probatory periods. Implement
conditions of service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical, injury on
duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension and allowances,
termination of service. Noticas, Awol Administration Recommend (approve
transactions on PERSOL according delegations. Final authorisation should
happen at a higher level. Performance management. Prepare reports on HR
admin issues and stats. Studies at State Cost, Transfers, Detached duties,
Corps Transfers, Contract Renewals, HR provisioning (Recruitment and
13
Selection, Appointments, verification of qualification, and secretariat functions
at interviews,
ENQUIRIES : Capt Kubheka Tel No: (036) 271 3094
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 5 SAI Bn, Private Bag X99114, Ladysmith,
3307 or may be hand delivered to 1 Harrismith Road, Ladysmith, 5 SAI Bn
Military Base or email to 5saiopsroom@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/13 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: 6SAIBN/01/41/25/04
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : 6 SAI Bn, Grahamstown
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in human resource management. A post grade 12
qualification will serve as an advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed).
Computer skills. Planning and organising. Language skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the public
service. Knowledge of working procedure in terms of working environment.
DUTIES : Supervise and take more complex implementation and maintenance of Human
Resource administration practices and probatory periods. Implement
conditions of service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical, injury on
duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension and allowances,
termination of service. Noticas, and Awol Administration. Recommend and
approve transactions on PERSOL according delegations. Final authorisation
should happen at a higher level. Performance management. Prepare reports
on HR admin issues and stats. Studies at State Cost, Transfers, Detached
duties, Corps Transfers, Contract Renewals, HR provisioning (Recruitment and
Selection, Appointments, verification of qualification, and secretariat functions
at interviews).
ENQUIRIES : Capt King Tel No: (046) 602 2103
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 6 SAI Bn, Private Bag X1014, Grahamstown,
6140 or may be hand delivered to Cradock Road and Golf Course Road Military
Base or email to imsc.6sai@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/14 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ASBEC/01/41/25/05
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : ASB Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in human resource management. Special Requirements
(Skills needed): Applicants with prior learning, either by means of experience
or alternative courses may also apply. computer literate, PERSOL and leave
course.
DUTIES : Supervise and take more complex implementation and maintenance of Human
Resource administration practices include provision recruitment and selection.
Implement conditions of service and service benefits including medical and
injury on duty. Terminate of service. Recommend transactions on PERSOL
according to delegations. Performance Management. Prepare reports on
human resource administration issues and statistics. Perform maintenance
functions. Management of Attendance Registers. Leave administration.
Collect and distribute salary advices within the unit against signature. Collect
and distribute IRP5s against signature. Deal with uniform and civilian
employees maintenance administration. Assist as checker for maintenance
transactions captured on PERSOL.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 Z.C Mdokwe Tel No: (041) 505 1237 or Ms S. Van der watt Tel No: (041)
505 1248
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence South African Army Support Base Eastern Cape, PO
Box 13419, Humewood, Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, 6013 or may be hand
14
delivered to Army Support Base EC, Willow Drive, Forest Hill Port Elizabeth,
6001 or email to: Erika.VanTonder@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/15 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO:
AAFMNHQ/01/41/25/06
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SA Army Armour Formation HQ, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent with a minimum of three (3) years’ relevant experience
in office administration. Special Requirements (Skills needed): Computer
literacy in CALMIS. Computer literacy and logistical administrative activities,
understanding of relevant policies, standards, analytical skills.
DUTIES : Receiving and issuing of stock, demand stock from depot and capturing of all
accounting actions on CALMIS, complete quality administration of demands
and returns. The maintenance and management of building or facilities. To
assist in reporting breakages to ASB facility call desk tom appoint a contractor,
in logging all breakages in a register, to receive contractor and escort them to
correct building in keeping records of all work completed, with the follow up
register of outstanding jobs, report any irregularities like stoppages and
damages on building to barrack clerk, in the handing and taking over of
buildings, in preparing inventories for every buildings, to ensures that a key
register is in place and is kept up to date.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S.B. Bambo Tel No: (012) 355-2891
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Armour Formation, Private Bag X172,
Pretoria, 0001 or email to armourhq@gmail.com
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/16 : SECRETARY REF NO: ADAFMN/01/41/25/07
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Air Defence Artillery Formation Headquarters (ADA FMN HQ)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 or equivalent, experience in the
Administration/Secretarial and an appropriate academic qualifications in the
field will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Language skills and the ability to communicate well with people from different
levels. Knowledge of Ms Word, Excel, Power point and Lotus note. Typing
skills. Ability to operate office equipment (fax, scanner, photocopies and
internet). Good interpersonal skills and organisational skills. Higher levels of
professionalism and reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good
telephone etiquette. Self-motivation and flexible. The successful candidate will
be required to obtain a Security Clearance within a year of employment.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be required to perform the following duties:
Provides secretarial and clerical support to the Directorate. Receive telephone
calls and refers the calls to the correct role players. Operate office equipment
like fax machine and photocopiers. Coordinate all travel and related logistical
arrangements for the Director. Compile and submit subsistence and travel
(S&T) claim. Arrange meetings and events for the Director. Identify venues,
invite role players, organizes refreshment and sets up schedules for meetings
and events. Record basic minutes of the meeting of the Director. Draft routine
correspondence and reports. Establish and maintain filing system in the
Directorate. Manage incoming and outgoing documents. Handle the
procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure
efficient and effective support to the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Warrant Officer A. Macdonald Tel No: (012) 355 2427
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence SA Army Air Defence Artillery Formation, Private Bag
X123, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at SA Army Air Defence Artillery
Formation, Corner Patriot and Karelboom Street, Sebokeng complex Block H
1, Pretoria 0001 or email to Beauty.msiza@dod.mil.za
15
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/17 : SECRETARY REF NO: ARMYHQ/01/41/25/08 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Good Communication skills. Language proficiency in English (written and
verbal). Sound planning, organisational, and coordinating skills. Good
telephone etiquette. Computer literate (i.e. MS Word, MS PowerPoint, and MS
Excel). Ability to interact well with people at all levels. Ability to pay attention to
details. Must be creative and innovative. Excellent secretary skills. High level
of reality. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to search and analyse
documents and situations. The successful candidate must be able to obtain a
confidential clearance within a year.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be required to perform the following duties: Receive
telephone calls and refer to the correct role players. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Type/write documents, memorandums, letters,
and reports. Deal with classified documents and files. Arrange venues and
events, and invite role players. Arrange accommodations and traveling
substance S&T advances and claims for the Chief Director Force Structure
Elements.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 X.M. Mpongoshe/ Ms E.T. Nyakhulalini Tel No: (012) 355 1455/1602
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Headquarters Unit (Army Headquarters)
Dequar Road, Private Bag X981, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at SA Army
Headquarters Unit, No 1 Dequar Road or email to
putswelitlhakanyane@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/18 : SECRETARY REF NO: ASBBFN/01/41/25/09
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : ASB Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an added advantage. Special requirements (skills needed):
Computer literate (MS Word, Power Point, Access and Excel). Typing skills.
Ability to communicate effectively in English (written and verbal). Knowledge of
all required policies and procedures. Analytical and innovative thinking ability
as well as problem solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be required to perform the following duties: Answer
telephone, make telephone calls on behalf of the GOC, canalize telephone
calls to the relative division of the department , arrange meetings, take notes
and do typing for the GOC, update diary, make arrangements for the GOC
journeys, and accommodation , book accommodation for meetings, submit
claims for accommodation expenditure, receive visitors and prepare
refreshments, collect newspapers clippings of reports which maybe of
importance to the GOC.
ENQUIRIES : Major V.L. Fokase/ Ms N.P. Mngezana: Tel No: (015) 402 1120/1093/0739
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Army Support Base Bloemfontein, Private Bag
X20599, Bloemfontein, 0700 or may be hand delivered to Army Support Base
Bloemfontein, Nelson Mandela Drive, Universitas, Bloemfontein, 9301 or email
to hlengiwe.mbuyazi@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
16
POST 41/19 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: INFSCH/01/41/25/10
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Infantry School, Oudtshoorn
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written) in
English, reasoning, problem solving ability and initiative. Ability to work in team
and individually. Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Ability to perform routine
tasks.
DUTIES : Receive and register job cards from clients. Function according to the latest
Instruction that has been received from the Formation Headquarters. Ensure
completeness of the work to be done and that it is clearly indicated to whom it
must go and the contact person is contacted. Placing completed jobs in sorters
or folding machines. Assist with carting, binding and laminating of all work that
has been done. Safe keeping and maintenance of all equipment. Ensure the
environment is always well ventilated and ensure locking of the working
environment and all machines are off. Ensure confidentiality with regards to all
documents classified and handed in for printing. Assist with the receiving and
handing out after printing of all documents. Ensure to be up to date with the
SANDF safety regulations with regards to machinery. Completed work must be
placed in correct sections of the unit. Accurateness with reproduction process
and neatness with reproduction process. Cleaning and up keeping of photo
copy machines in the Media and Repro Centre. Report any damage/losses
immediately to Media Centre Coordinator.
ENQUIRIES : Maj Bestbier Tel No: (044) 203 4029
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, Infantry School, Private Bag X643,
Oudtshoorn, 6620 or may be hand delivered to Park Road, Oudtshoorn or
email to imsc.Infsch@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/20 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
46SABDE/01/41/25/11
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 46 SA BDE HQ, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of various filing systems. Computer literacy, Verbal and Written
Communication Skills. Clerical and Administration. Analytical thinking. Problem
solving.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and effectiveness of the stores operations.
Execute the Log plan, policies and internal procedures as set out by the HQ
Commander. Keep a complete record of all equipment in the stores, ensure
that unserviceable equipment are written off to the unserviceable store. Issue
equipment by means of an issue voucher via the transito. Receive incoming
stock and compare with the receipt voucher to be posted on the main ledger.
Place orders for equipment when equipment reaches their stock levels. Ensure
stores are neatly packed for stock taking and all stock that is not needed must
be disposed and make space for new stock. Control register must be updated
and controlled in order to maintain stock levels and to monitor the distribution
of equipment. Also responsible for managing all general administration work,
distribute relevant incoming correspondence to the involved section. Archiving
must be done according to the prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col T.M. Hloka and WO1 M. Botha Tel No: (011) 417 6036/6224
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 46 SA Brigade Headquarters Private Bag X2, Kengray,
2100 or may be hand delivered to 222 Cumberland Road South Kensington
Kengray or email to Tlou.Hloka@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
17
POST 41/21 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: ATTC/01/41/25/12
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army Technical Training Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Experience in administration
environment will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge
of various filing systems. Computer literacy, Verbal and Written Communication
Skills. Clerical and Administration. Analytical thinking. Problem solving.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and effectiveness of the stores operations.
Execute the Log plan, policies and internal procedures as set out by the HQ
Commander. Keep a complete record of all equipment in the stores, ensure
that unserviceable equipment are written-off to the unserviceable store. Issue
equipment by means of an issue voucher via the transito. Receive incoming
stock and compare with the receipt voucher to be posted on the main ledger.
Place orders for equipment when equipment reaches their stock levels. Ensure
stores are neatly packed for stock taking and all stock that is not needed must
be disposed and make space for new stock. Control register must be updated
and controlled in order to maintain stock levels and to monitor the distribution
of equipment. Also responsible for managing all general administration work,
distribute relevant incoming correspondence to the involved section. Archive
must be done according to the prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Maj L.A Balane Tel No: (012) 671 0313 and Ms V.Mdokwe Tel No: (012) 671
0189
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence SA Army Technical Training Centre, Private Bag X06,
Littelton, 0140 or hand deliver to Technical Training Centre, 61 Avro road Tek
Baser 0140 or email to asfinvitations@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/22 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: SUEC/01/41/25/13
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation. Eastern Cape Signal Unit. Geo Location: 6 SAI Bn
- Grahamstown.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Good communication skills, Basic computer literacy, operating office
equipment, good inter-personal skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Manage of telephone exchange in the base area. Attend to incoming and
outgoing telephone calls to appropriate person/division. Transfer calls to
relevant extensions. Provide clients with relevant information. Take messages
and convey to relevant staff. The record keeping of all outgoing calls. The
handling of international calls, connection of lines. Print and issue telephone
accounts. Maintain telephone database. The note down and giving of
messages. Allocate pin codes when authorised. Identify and report telephone
faults. Planning of leave. Provide training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C.W. Turner Tel No: (041) 505 1186
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Signal Formation, Eastern Cape Signal Unit,
P.O. Box 438, Humewood, Port Elizabeth, 6013. or email to:
Ndumiso.majozi@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/23 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: ASBLP/01/41/25/14
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation, Limpopo Signal Unit. Geo Location: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Good communication skills, Basic computer literacy, operating office
equipment, good inter-personal skills.
18
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Manage of telephone exchange in the base area. Attend to incoming and
outgoing telephone calls to appropriate person/division. Transfer calls to
relevant extensions. Provide clients with relevant information. Take messages
and convey to relevant staff. The record keeping of all outgoing calls. The
handling of international calls, connection of lines. Print and issue telephone
accounts. Maintain telephone database. The note down and giving of
messages. Allocate pin codes when authorised. Identify and report telephone
faults. Planning of leave. Provide training.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 T.J. Mabasa Tel No: (015) 299-3619
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Limpopo Signal Unit, Private Bag X9304, Polokwane,
0700 or hand deliver to 345 Gateway Road, Polokwane, 0700 or email to
Tlou.Seema@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/24 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation MOD Signal Unit. Geo Location: Armscor
Erasmuskloof Ref No: SIGFMN/01/41/25/15a
1 Mil Hosp - Thaba Tshwane Ref No: SIGFMN/01/41/25/15b
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Good communication skills, Basic computer literacy, operating office
equipment, good inter-personal skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Manage of telephone exchange in the base area. Attend to incoming and
outgoing telephone calls to appropriate person/division. Transfer calls to
relevant extensions. Provide clients with relevant information. Take messages
and convey to relevant staff. The record keeping of all outgoing calls. The
handling of international calls, connection of lines. Print and issue telephone
accounts. Maintain telephone database. The note down and giving of
messages. Allocate pin codes when authorised. Identify and report telephone
faults. Planning of leave. Provide training.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs C.S. van Schalkwyk Tel No: (012) 355-5629
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Signal Formation, MOD Signal Unit, Private
Bag X161, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to 630 Armscor Building, Cnr Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or email to:
Mageti.Mohlala@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/25 : STORES ASSISTANT REF NO: 9SAIBN/01/41/25/16 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 9 SAI Bn, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Apply OHS measures where required.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity, innovative and neatness.
Bilingual, Hardworking, must be able to work shifts, must be able to receive
and perform tasks.
DUTIES : Ensure stores are clean and neat. Prevent unauthorized personnel from
gaining access to the stores. Ensure accurate filing and documentation of all
demands, receipts, storage and issuing of equipment. Ensure that upon
receiving stock from transit it must be properly counted and binned. Ensure
accurate marking with bin numbers, ICN and description of items. Accompany
counting tem during stock takes and ensure correct totals are captured. Ensure
19
maximum security is applied, locking of windows, doors and signing in and out
of building keys.
ENQUIRIES : Capt P.S. Bam Tel No: (021) 787 6155
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 9 SAI Bn Private Bag X4, Eersterivier, 7103
or may be hand delivered to Spine Road, Ext 29 Eersterivier or emailed to
Chaney.Bailey@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/26 : MESSENGER REF NO: ASBKZN/01/41/25/17
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation: KZN Signal Unit. Geo Location: DOD MOSD
Durban.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (skills
needed): Basic Numeracy. Language skills. Basic interpersonal relationship.
Organising skills and basic literacy skills. Must have a valid vehicle licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Fetch and deliver posts, packages, files and articles as well as the submissions
to and from pre –identified addresses. Deliver and collect files and documents
within Units and Division. Distribute and collect files and documents with the
Unit and Division. Distribute and collect documents or articles within the Unit.
Assist from time to time with the execution of filing functions attached to the
registry office. Keep a register of all documents files, letters, delivered and
received. Assist with functions in the registry environment.
ENQUIRIES : Sgt A.C. Thyssen/Ms T.A. Sishi Tel No: (031) 451 1974
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, KZN Signal Unit, Private Bag X21096, Bluff, 4036 or
hand deliver at Cnr Marine Drive and Lighthouse Road, Bluff, 4052. Email to:
Kerresa.gordon@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/27 : MESSENGER REF NO: SUWC/01/41/25/18
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation. Western Cape Signal Unit. Geo Location: ASB
Youngsfield.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Basic Numeracy. Language skills. Basic interpersonal relationship.
Organising skills and basic literacy skills. Must have a valid vehicle licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Fetch and deliver posts, packages, files and articles as well as the submissions
to and from pre –identified addresses. Deliver and collect files and documents
within Units or Divisions. Distribute and collect files and documents with the
Unit and Division. Distribute and collect documents/articles within the Unit.
Assist from time to time with the execution of filing functions attached to the
registry office. Keep a register of all documents, files and letters delivered or
received. Assist with functions in the registry environment.
ENQUIRIES : Captain S.R. Fry Tel No: (021) 787 1700
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Signal Formation, Western Cape Signal Unit,
Private Bag X1, Kenwyn, 7790 or email to Lizelle.Fry@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/28 : MESSENGER REF NO: ARMYHQ/01/41/25/19
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Signal Formation: Dequar Road Signal Unit. Geo Location: Army
College – Thaba Tshwane.
20
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Basic Numeracy. Language skills. Basic interpersonal relationship.
Organising skills and basic literacy skills. Must have a valid vehicle licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Fetch and deliver posts, packages, files and articles as well as the submissions
to and from pre –identified addresses. Deliver and collect files and documents
within Units and Division. Distribute and collect files and documents with the
Unit and Division. Distribute and collect documents or articles within the Unit.
Assist from time to time with the execution of filing functions attached to the
registry office. Keep a register of all documents files, letters, delivered and
received. Assist with functions in the registry environment.
ENQUIRIES : W01 N.C. Josephs Tel No: (012) 355 1992
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Dequar Road Signal Unit, Private Bag X172, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at Dequar Road, Army HQ, Library Building, 0001 or email
to: SeipeiShadung@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/29 : CLEANER REF NO: JSBWON/01/41/25/20
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : JSB Wonderboom. Geo Location: Wonderboom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to
work in team and individual. Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Ensure that offices/kitchen/bathrooms/conference rooms are clean, neat and
presentable. Keep registers of cleaning material that is distributed.
Responsible for the safekeeping of cleaning material that is distributed. Ensure
general hygiene, floor cleaning, washing, scrubbing floors, windows, walls,
carpets and removing of garbage from dustbin on a daily basis. Dusting of
equipment in offices as tasked. Polishing of all furniture in offices as tasked.
Effective use of cleaning equipment to assist in performing mentioned
duties/tasks. Report any defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor.
Apply OHS measures where required.
ENQUIRIES : Maj N.C Vuma Tel No: (012) 529 0440
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, JSB Wonderboom, Private Bag X01, Doornpoort,
1700.or hand deliver at Military Base Wonderboom, Lindvelt Road, Doornpoort,
1700 or email to: Theresa.VanDyk@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/30 : CLEANER REF NO: 9SAIBN/01/41/25/21 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 9 SAI Bn, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Apply OHS measures where required.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity, innovative and neatness.
Bilingual, Hardworking, must be able to work shifts, must be able to receive
and perform tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
21
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the work place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Capt P.S. Bam Tel No: (021) 787 6155
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 9 SAI Bn Private Bag X4, Eersterivier 7103
or may be hand delivered to Spine Road, Ext 29 Eersterivier or emailed to
Chaney.Bailey@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/31 : CLEANER REF NO: JSBGAR/01/41/25/22 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joint Support Base (JSB) Garrison, Thaba Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special Requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of cleaning machinery with low level of complexity in
operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to
operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in
team and individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Lt K.P. Matebula Tel No: (012) 684 2198 or Ms M.T.P. Lekgetho Tel No: (012)
684 2029
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Joint Support Base Garrison, Private Bag X1001,
Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or hand deliverd at Joint Support Base Garrison, No1
Van Reeback Road, Thaba Tshwane or email to Netshutungulu@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/32 : CLEANER REF NO: SAFMN/01/41/25/23 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : School of Armour, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good organising, planning and coordination skills. Must be able to
work alone. Good Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform effective routine cleaning in and around the building, offices and other
allocated areas by utilising the available resources. Provide a clean, safe and
hygienic environment to prevent injuries and the spread of infection. Ensure
that cleaning equipment, e.g. polishing and scrubbing machines, mops,
brooms, buckets, etc. are clean after usage and securely stored.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 S. du Preez Tel No: (051) 402-1739
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, School of Armour, Private Bag X40004, Tempe, 9318
or email to schoolofarmour.sa@gmail.com
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/33 : CLEANER REF NO: 1SATR/01/41/25/24
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 1 SA Tank Regt
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good organising, planning and coordination skills. Must be able to
work alone. Good Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform effective routine cleaning in and around the building, offices and other
allocated areas by utilising the available resources. Provide a clean, safe and
hygienic environment to prevent injuries and the spread of infection. Ensure
that cleaning equipment, e.g. polishing and scrubbing machines, mops,
brooms, buckets, etc. are clean after usage and securely stored.
22
ENQUIRIES : Sgt Senoko Tel No: (051) 402-1629
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 1 SA Tank Regt, Private Bag X04, Brandhof or email
to 1satankregiment@gmail.com
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/34 : CLEANER REF NO: ASBMP/01/41/25/25 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Mpumalanga.
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum qualification ABET. Special Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and
safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery with low level of
complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning
equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine
tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and literacy
skills. Perform cleaning duties. Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty,
integrity, innovative and neatness.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (Include sweeping of floors, scrubbing and polishing all landings
and alleyways, polishing of furniture, vacuuming of carpets, washing down of
walls / tiles and window sills, window cleaning, cleaning of vehicles and
sweeping of sidewalks. Vacuum of facilities, clean and dust office furniture on
a daily basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities,
clean toilet, and regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices.
Properly maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference
facilities. Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report
and defects in the work place to immediate supervisor. Provide a domestic and
hygiene cleaning service. Observing OHASA regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Maj S.M Mbuyane Tel No: (013) 756 2284 or Ms M.Scheepers Tel No: (013)
756 2186
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Army Support Base Mpumalanga, Private Bag
X11277, Nelspruit, 1200 or hand deliver at Department of Defence Army
Support Base Mpumalanga. Citrus Crescent No 6 Nelspruit, 1200 or email to
Julia.Matsepa@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/35 : CLEANER REF NO: 7SAIBN/01/41/25/26 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 7 SAI Bn, Phalaborwa
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Apply OHS measures where required.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity, innovative and neatness.
Bilingual, Hardworking, must be able to work shifts, must be able to receive
and perform tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the work place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Capt Machaba Tel No: (015) 780 4066
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 7 SAI Bn, Private Bag X01015, Phalaborwa,
1390 or may be hand delivered to Hendrick van Eck Road 7 SAI Bn Military
Base or email to imsc.7sai@dod.mil.za
23
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/36 : CLEANER REF NO: 10SAIBN/01/41/25/27 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 10 SAI Bn, Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Apply OHS measures where required.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity, innovative and neatness.
Bilingual, Hardworking, must be able to work shifts, must be able to receive
and perform tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Ratema Tel No: (018) 389 6515
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 10 SAI Bn Private Bag X2014, Mahikeng,
2745 or may be hand delivered to Ramatlabama Road, 10 SAI Bn Military Base
Mahikeng or email to 10saibnstaffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/37 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ADAFMN/01/41/25/28 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Air Defence Artillery Formation Headquarters (ADA FMN HQ)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirement (Skills
needed): Knowledge of the gardening service would be an advantage. Ability
to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and
safety requirements. Must have physical strength to move materials and
equipment. Sound knowledge of plants and garden equipment. Gardening
skills. Ability to work in team. Ability to prioritise and organise work.
DUTIES : Maintaining cleanliness of outside terrains. Preparing soil for planting.
Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in gardens. Removal of alien
vegetation. Planting flowers, trees and shrubs. Watering of lawns, landscapes
and gardens. Monitoring and maintain plant health. Ensuring proper upkeep of
sidewalks, parking lots, fountains, fences, planters and benches as well as
grounds keeping equipment. Removal of refuse. Practicing pest control.
Assisting with preparing grounds for functions and parades. Handling and
maintain basic light machinery, rotary mowers, trimmers, leaf blowers, weed
eaters, chainsaws, lawnmowers, pole pruners, hand tools etc. Checking
serviceability of equipment and machinery and report defects.
ENQUIRIES : Warrant Officer A. Macdonald Tel No: (012) 355 2427
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence SA Army Air Defence Artillery Formation, Private Bag
X123, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at SA Army Air Defence Artillery
Formation, Corner Patriot and Karelboom Street, Sebokeng complex Block H
1, Pretoria 0001 or email to Beauty.msiza@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
24
POST 41/38 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: JSBWB/01/41/25/29
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : JSB Wonderboom: Geo Location: Wonderboom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic numeracy
and literacy skills. Basic knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of
gardening and maintenance equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines.
Ability to work in team and/or individual. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability
to priorities and organize work.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Cultivate garden areas. Maintaining cleanliness of outside terrains. Preparing
soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass gardens.
Removal of alien vegetation. Planting flowers, trees and shrubs. Watering of
lawns, landscapes and gardens. Monitoring and maintain plant health.
Ensuring proper upkeep of sidewalks, parking lots, fences, planters and
benches as well as grounds keeping equipment. Removal of refuse. Practicing
pest control. Assisting with preparing grounds for functions and parades.
Handling and maintain basic light machinery, rotary mowers, trimmers, leaf
blowers, weed eaters, chainsaws, lawnmowers, pole pruners hand tools etc.
checking serviceability of equipment and machinery and report defects.
Maintain flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning.
Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the grounds.
Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the truck for transformation to
refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of unit areas. Properly
maintained equipment save and secure. Apply OHS measures where required.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, JSB Wonderboom, Private Bag X01, Doornpoort,
1700 or hand deliver at Military Base Wonderboom, Lindvelt Road, Doornpoort,
1700 or email to: Theresa.VanDyk@dod.mil.za
ENQUIRIES : Maj N.C Vuma Tel No: (012) 529 0440
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/39 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: JSBGAR/01/41/25/30 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joint Support Base (JSB) Garrison, Thaba Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special Requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic Knowledge of
basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines.
Knowledge of gardening and maintenance of equipment. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Joint Support Base Garrison, Private Bag X1001,
Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or hand delivered at Joint Support Base Garrison, No1
Van Reeback Road, Thaba Tshwane or email to Netshutungulu@dod.mil.za
ENQUIRIES : Lt K.P. Matebula Tel No: (012) 684 2198 or Ms M.T.P. Lekgetho Tel No: (012)
684 2029
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/40 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 7SAIBN/01/41/25/31 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 7 SAI Bn, Phalaborwa
25
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Working relations with others.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity and practical. Knowledge
of gardening and maintenance of equipment.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Maintain general appearance of shooting range and
immediate surroundings. Assist with maintenance on shooting related
equipment and facilities. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas. Properly maintained equipment save and secure. Apply OHS
measures where required.
ENQUIRIES : Capt Machaba Tel No: (015) 780 4066
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 7 SAI Bn, Private Bag X01015, Phalaborwa,
1390 or may be hand delivered to Hendrick van Eck Road 7 SAI Bn Military
Base or email to imsc.7sai@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/41 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 9SAIBN/01/41/25/32 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 9 SAI Bn, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Working relations with others.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity and practical. Knowledge
of gardening and maintenance of equipment.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Maintain general appearance of shooting range and
immediate surroundings. Assist with maintenance on shooting related
equipment and facilities. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas. Properly maintained equipment save and secure. Apply OHS
measures where required.
ENQUIRIES : Capt P.S. Bam Tel No: (021) 787 6155
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 9 SAI Bn Private Bag X4, Eersterivier, 7103
or may be hand delivered to Spine Road, Ext 29 Eersterivier or email to
Chaney.Bailey@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/42 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: AAFMNHQ/01/41/25/33 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Armour Formation Headquarters, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): No experience required.
DUTIES : Cultivation / Cultivate garden areas, Prepare soil for the planting of plants.
Maintain the flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and
pruning. Pruning, Weed Control, Removing of refuse. Maintenance of all
26
gardens. Maintenance of grounds alongside the roads. Area preparations for
functions. Cutting of grass, Mow lawns and cut the edges Load and unload
various articles and equipment needed on the grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove
refuge from terrain. Load refuge on the truck for transportation to refuge
dumbs. Maintain neatness of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S.B. Bambo Tel No: (012) 355-2891
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Armour Formation, Private Bag X172,
Pretoria, 0001 or email to armourhq@gmail.com
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/43 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ASBKBY/01/41/25/34
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base Kimberley.
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum qualification ABET. Special Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and
safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery with low level of
complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic Knowledge of basic hand tools
and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Knowledge of
gardening and maintenance of equipment. Ability to perform routine tasks.
Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : Maj I.W. Februarie Tel No: (053) 830 3011 or WO1 M.E Mogorosi Tel No: (053)
830 3010
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army Support Base Kimberly, Private
Bag X5056, Diskobolos Kimberly, Northern Cape, 8325 or email to
Mimy.Matimbe@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/44 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ASBEC/01/41/25/35 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum qualification ABET. Special Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and
safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery with low level of
complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic. Knowledge of basic hand tools
and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Knowledge of
gardening and maintenance of equipment. Ability to perform routine tasks.
Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : WO Z.C Mdokwe Tel No: (041) 505 1237 or Ms S. Van der watt Tel No: (041)
505 1248
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army Support Base Eastern Cape, PO
Box, 13419, Humewood, Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, 6013 or Army Support
Base EC, Willow Drive, Forest Hill, Port Elizabeth or email to
Erika.VanTonder@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
27
POST 41/45 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ASBMP/01/41/25/36 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum qualification ABET. Special Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and
safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery with low level of
complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic Knowledge of basic hand tools
and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Knowledge of
gardening and maintenance of equipment. Ability to perform routine tasks.
Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : Maj S.M Mbuyane Tel No: (013) 756 2284 or Ms M.Scheepers Tel No: (013)
756 2186
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Army Support Base Mpumalanga, Private Bag
X11277, Nelspruit, 1200 or may be hand delivered to Department of Defence
Army Support Base Mpumalanga. Citrus Crescent No 6 Nelspruit, 1200 or
email to Julia.Matsepa@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/46 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 1SSBN/01/41/25/37
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 1 Special Service Bn, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Be able to communicate in English and able to work after hours when
unit is hosting certain function and or formal dinners after hours.
DUTIES : Ensure the dining hall is clean at all times, tables are clean, clean and set
correctly according to the menus. Fold the serviettes. Ensure cutlery, serviettes
condiments, butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Ensure that
the jugs for water and juice are clean and always replenished when empty.
Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses, damages and theft
observed. Wash dirty dishes. Clean kitchen, equipment and appliances. Keep
a high standard of hygiene in all daily tasks. Prepare for functions. Prepare
tea/coffee during conferences/meetings per instruction that will be given to you.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 W.A. Gerber Tel No: (051) 402 1406
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 1 Special Service Battalion, Private Bag X4005,
Tempe, 9318 or email to 1ssb076@gmail.com
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/47 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: JSBGAR/01/41/25/38 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joint Support Base (JSB) Garrison, Thaba Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special Requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of food preparation. Knowledge of
basic food preparation equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability
to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in shifts. Good interpersonal relation,
endurance, good integrity, punctuality.
DUTIES : Prepare meals. Prepare snacks. Make salads. Prepare drinks for each meal.
Make garnish for meals and snacks. Assist with the dishing up of food per meal.
Assist with the receiving of rations. Assist with food preparations and other
related responsibilities during field exercises. Remove kitchen waste. Pack
supplies received in the food storage areas. Keep the kitchen, dining hall and
28
food storage areas clean and tidy. Apply hygiene as well as safety measures
in work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Lt K.P. Matebula Tel No: (012) 684 2198 or Ms M.T.P. Lekgetho Tel No: (012)
684 2029
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Joint Support Base Garrison, Private Bag X1001,
Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or hand delivered at Joint Support Base Garrison, No1
Van Reeback Road, Thaba Tshwane or email to Netshutungulu@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 41/48 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 10SAIBN/01/41/25/39 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 10 SAI Bn, Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skill
needed): Be able to communicate in English and able to work after hours when
unit is hosting certain function.
DUTIES : Ensure the dining hall is clean at all times, tables are clean, clean and set
correctly according to the menus. Fold the serviettes. Ensure cutlery, serviettes
condiments, butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Ensure that
the jugs for water and juice are clean and always replenished when empty.
Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses, damages and theft
observed. Wash dirty dishes. Clean kitchen, equipment and appliances. Keep
a high standard of hygiene in all daily tasks. Prepare for functions. Prepare
tea/coffee during conferences/meetings per instruction that will be given to you.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Ratema Tel No: (018) 389 6515
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 10 SAI Bn Private Bag X2014, Mahikeng,
2745 or may be hand delivered to Ramatlabama Road, 10 SAI Bn Military Base
Mafikeng or email to 10saibnstaffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
29
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 midnight (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not eccept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the purpose of this
promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The requirements for application of Senior Management
Services (SMS) include the successful completion of a SMS Pre-entry
programme (Nyukela) as endorsed by the National School Government (NSG).
Prior to appointment, a candidate should therefore have proof that they have
registered for the Pre-Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The
cost for Nyukela is at the applicants own expense. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the
Department, following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel
will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The Department
reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised
post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
30
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/49 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS REF NO: HR 4/25/11/02HO
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Public /
Administration or Management / Labour Law / Operations Management /
Human Resource management /Finance / Accounting / Social Science /
Medical Science / Health Sciences / Engineering Science / Economics /
Statistics. Five (5) years of experience at a senior management level in a
relevant operational environment. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Recruitment and Selection, Human Resource administration, Relevant
legislation in Labour Relations Act, Public Service Regulation Act, Basic
Condition of Employment Act, Departmental Policies and procedures, Public
Finance Management Act, Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Management, Interpersonal, Verbal and written communication, Computer
literacy, Negotiation, Presentation.
DUTIES : Oversee the effective implementation of Inspection and Enforcement Services.
Oversee the effective implementation of Public Employment Service. Oversee
labour Centre Operations in the Province. Oversee the effective
implementation of Corporate Services. Oversee the effective implementation
of UIF and CF services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ16@Labour.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/50 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HR
4/25/11/01HO
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Qualification at NQF6 as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Management Services/ Organization and Work Study/
Work Study/ Industrial Engineering/ Operations Management/ Production
Management/ Industrial and Organizational Psychology/ Human Resources
Management. Valid driver’s license. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2)
at Assistant Director Level and three (3) years functional experience in
Organizational development. Knowledge: Basic understanding of policies,
Public Service Regulations, prescripts and legislation, Understanding of
information analysis, Research processes and procedures, Organisational
Behaviour/ Design Tools, Job profile design and Job evaluation, Basic
knowledge of Public Financial Management Act. Skills: Change management,
Organization design, Business process management, Problem solving and
solution development, Project management, Facilitation and problem solving,
Computer literacy, Communication and interpersonal, People management.
DUTIES : Manage organizational design processes and activities for improvement and
maintenance of the organization structure within the Department. Manage the
development and reviewal of Job Profiles. Manage the Job Evaluation
processes. Manage and coordinate processes and interventions for Business
Process Improvement. Manage and coordinate change management
processes and culture surveys in the Department. Manage all resources of the
Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Nkhabelane Tel No: (012) 309 4611
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 41/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY REF NO: HR 4/4/1/98
SALARY : Grade 1: R638 856 – R707 625 per annum, (OSD)
31
Grade 2: R727 350 – 807 243 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Occupational Therapy, Post Graduate Diploma in Vocational Rehabilitation will
be added as an advantage. Four (4) years’ functional experience in
Rehabilitation post community service environment of which two (2) years’ in
supervisory level. Knowledge: Patient care, Rehab Therapy Management,
Rehabilitation related Legislation & Regulatory Knowledge & Implementation ,
Medical Rehabilitation Policy Management, Public Service Act, DeL and
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals, Directorate goals and
performance requirements , Compensation Fund Value Chain and business
processes, Public Service, DeL and Fund regulations, policies and procedures,
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles),Promotion of Equality and
Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations ,Promotion of Access to Information Act , Constitution Act 108 of
1996 (amended), General knowledge of the Public Service Regulations , Skill
Development Act , Regulations and Policies, Employment Equity Act, Labour
Relations Act, Health Act, Allied Health Professions Act, Rehabilitation
Framework & Policy, Integrated National Disability Strategy (INDS) , COID Act,
National Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Skills:
Programme Management and Planning, Stakeholder Development and
Management , Clinical Excellence and Advisory, Analyzing & Interpreting
Information (Data Analytic), Clinical Vocational Rehabilitation, Coaching and
Mentoring , Conflict Management, Critical and Innovative Thinking, Inspire
Commitment, People Management, Performance and oversight,
Programme/Project Management , Quality Assurance, Risk Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Stakeholder Development & Relations ,Vision &
Strategy.
DUTIES : Manage early return to work and community re-integration programmes.
Participate in the development/review of rehabilitation strategy, policies and
protocols in accordance with the national legislative framework. Establish and
maintain relationship with various internal and external stakeholders. Manage
the Disability Management Section.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. B Dunga Tel No: (043) 701 3000
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag 9005, East London,
0001 or hand deliver at Department of Employment and Labour: No 3 Hill
Street, East London. Email: Jobs-EC4@labour.gov.za
POST 41/52 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/25/11/03HO
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Human Resources Management/ Employment Relations/ Labour
Relations/Labour Law/Bachelor of Law (LLB). Two (2) years functional
Administrative experience in Employment Relations. Knowledge: Public
Service Commission’s rules for dealing with complaints and grievance, Public
Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council’s Resolutions, Research/ analysing,
Public Service Regulations, Grievance and Disciplinary policy, Human
Resources Management Policies, Dispute resolution, CCMA Policies and
Procedures. Skills: Problem solving, Negotiating, Presenting, Good
Communication skills (oral and written), Research, Analytical, Computer
literacy, Interpretation of legislation/ policies.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyse all grievances and complaints received from employees
in the Department. Draft charges and finalize all misconduct cases in the
Department. Represent the Department in conciliation disputes referred to the
General Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC) and the
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA).
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Makuya Tel No: (012) 309 4130
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ7@Labour.gov.za
POST 41/53 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OPERATIONS (X53 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
32
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Centane Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/5/01 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Idutywa Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/5/02 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Tsomo Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/ 5/03 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Willowavale Satellite Office Ref
No: HR4/4/5/04 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Cradock Ref No: HR4/4/5/06 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: East London but stationed at EL IDZ Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/5/07 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni Ref No: HR4/4/5/08 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni but stationed at Matatiele Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/09 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni but stationed at Mount Frere Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/5/10 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort Ref No: HR4/4/5/11 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort but stationed at Adelaide Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/12 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort but stationed at Alice Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/13 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Graaff-Reinet Ref No: HR4/4/5/14 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graaf-Reinet but stationed at Middelburg Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/5/15 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Graaf-Reinet but stationed at Willowmore Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/5/16 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega Ref No: HR4/4/17/ (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Kareedouw Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/18 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Joubertina Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/19 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Jeffreysbay Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4//20 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komani Ref No: HR/4/4/5/21 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Cala Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/22 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Cofimvaba Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/23 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Lady Frere Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/24 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Whittlesea Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/25 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki Ref No: HR/4/4/5/26 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Bizana Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/27 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Flagstaff Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/28 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Port St Johns Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/29 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Makhanda Ref No: HR/4/4/5/30 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Makhanda but stationed at Port Alfred Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/31 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Maletswai Ref No: HR/4/4/5/32 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Maletswai but stationed at Barkly East Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/33 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Maletswai but stationed at Sterkspruit Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/34 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mdantsane Ref No: HR4/4/5/35 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Mqanduli Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/36 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Libode Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/37 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Nqeleni Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/38 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu Ref No: HR/4/4/5/39 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Elliot Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/40 (X1 Post)
33
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Mount Fletcher Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/5/41 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Tsolo Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/42 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Ugie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/43 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Qonce Ref No: HR/4/4/5/44 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Qonce but stationed at Sutterheim Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/45 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Qonce but stationed at Peddie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/5/46 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public
Management or Administration/Business Administration or Management /
Administrative Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Finance at
NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license. Two (2) years
functional experience in Client Service environment/ Claims Processing
environment in operations or Insurance Environment. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act (UICA), Department of Employment and Labour &
UIF Policies and Procedure, Operations System, Batho Pele Principles,
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Interpersonal,
Presentation, Listening, Communication (verbal and written) Computer
Literacy, Problem Solving, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance Services through interaction with
customers. Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment
Insurance applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services.
Supervise resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/ Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Getyeza Tel No: (047) 491 0656
Ms L Nongena Tel No: (039) 254 7201
Mr T Mgudane Tel No: (046) 645 7700
Ms N Mkonto Tel No: (048) 881 3010
Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (049) 892 2142
Mr. M Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7500
Ms. W Koba Tel No: (041) 260 0606
Mr. L Mduduma Tel No: 761 3151
Ms. S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
Mr. S Thambo Tel No: (045) 807 5477
Ms. N Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104
Ms. N Mtwa Tel No: (039) 253 1996
Ms. N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 932 1077
Mr. R Mbali Tel No: (051) 633 2633
Mr. Mbande Tel No: (043) 718 8380
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X3081, Butterworth,
4960, Hand deliver at ERF 9369 Blyth and Robison Streets Butterworth 4960.
Email: Jobs-ECBTW@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, eMaXesibeni,
4735, Hand deliver at No 52 Church Street emaXesibeni 4735. Email: Jobs-
ECMTA@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, Fort Beaufort,
4735, Hand deliver at No 528 Alice Road Old Teba Building Fort Beaufort 5720.
Email: Jobs-ECFOB@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 38, Cradock, 5880, Hand
deliver at 73 Frere Street Centre Cradock 5880. Email: Jobs-
ECCRD@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 342, Graaff-Reinet, 6280,
Hand deliver at 63 Church Street Graaff-Reinet 6280. Email: Jobs-
ECGRN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations IG Building Ensuco House NR Hill
and Church Streets East London 5201. Email: Jobs –ECELN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, 15A Chase Street Kariega, 6230.
Email: Jobs- ECUHG@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations Mzaule Street NU1 Mdantsane
5219. Email: Jobs –ECMDS@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations Manpower Building CNR Elliot and
Madeira Streets Umthatha. Email Jobs–ECUTT@labour.gov.za
34
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 5320, Komani, 5320,
Hand deliver at 10 Robinson Road Komani 5320. Email: Jobs-
ECQTN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 342, Makhanda, 6140,
Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X1002,
Lusikisiki,4820, Hand deliver at Stanford and Jacaranda Streets Lusikisiki
4820. Email: Jobs-ECLSS@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 397 Nqanqarhu, 5780,
Hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu 5480. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 148 Maletswai, 9750,
Hand deliver at 80b Somerset Street Maletswai 9750. Email: Jobs-
ECALN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 260 Qonce 5600, Hand
deliver at 41 Arthur Street Qonce 5600. Email: Jobs-ECKWT@labour.gov.za
POST 41/54 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: HR4/4/1/06
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, East London
REQUIREMENTS : A three year (3) tertiary qualification in finance/accounting and Valid driver’s
licence. Two (2) years functional experience in financial management services.
Knowledge Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations,
Financial prescripts and manuals, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
Policies and Procedures, Conflict Skills: Planning and Organizing, Computer
literacy, Communication Problem Solving, Supervisory, Accounting,
Presentation, Analysis.
DUTIES : Authorize all financial transactions for the whole Province on financial
transversal system (e.g. BAS, LOGIS, PERSAL and safety-net) Verify
information to ensure proper financial documents management, Monitor
budget processes for the Province, Proper control of Petty cash, Clear
suspense accounts and unallocated accounts before month closure, Manage
the resources of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.MM Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9005, East London,
5201 Or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, East London
POST 41/55 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/4/10/19 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal. Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Department of
Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s Vision and Mission and Values,
Customer Care Principles, Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines.
SKILLS: Interview, Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy,
Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI Act and Contributions Act),
Conflict Management, Time Management, Customer Relations, Analytical,
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Godongwana at 082 883 7553
Mr N Pillay at 071 471 0542
Mr T Nengwekhulu at 060 968 6158
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. Email: Jobs-UIF-
GP1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants to this post, please note that you will receive an auto-reply with a
link and/or QR code which can be clicked or scanned respectively for you to
update crucial information. https://forms.office.com/r/pWzNyLKavs
35
POST 41/56 : INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/1/03 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Komani Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer (Spread
sheets, Power Point and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication, Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr U Tambo Tel No: (045) 807 5400
APPLICATIONS : Acting Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, P.O. Box 323, Komani,
5320, Hand deliver at 10 Robinson Road, Komani, 5320. Email: Jobs-
ecqtn@labour.gov.za
POST 41/57 : ADMIN CLERK: LEGAL SERVICES: COMPENSATION FUND REF NO:
HR4/4/1/100 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matriculation Senior Certificate. No experience required.
Knowledge: Regulatory Knowledge, Law and Legislation. Data capturing.
Collecting statistics. Compensation Fund business processes, procedure,
policies. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Technical Knowledge.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Promotion Access to Administrative
Justice Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Labour Law. Road
Accident Fund Act. The Constitution of RSA. COIDA Act. Skills: Computer
Literacy. Interpersonal Relations. Communication (written & verbal)
DUTIES : Liaise with provinces and Labour Centres for the provision of required
information and data. Manage correspondence and documentation. Render
effective administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. B Dunga Tel No: (043) 701 3000
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London, 5201
Or hand delivery to Department of Employment and Labour: No. 3 Hill Street,
East London. Email: Jobs-EC9@labour.gov.za
POST 41/58 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PES REF NO: HR4/4/1/101
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Butterworth
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12/Matriculation Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Relevant ILO Conventions, Human Resource Management Batho Pele. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Verbal and written communication, Analytical,
Computer literacy, Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Innovative.
DUTIES : Liaise with stakeholder relations for acquisition placement opportunities. Avail
information for coordination of International Cross-Border Labour Migration
function. Support coordination of the registration and certification of Private
Employment Agencies. Coordinate large (Provincial) opportunities from key
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NA Getyeza Tel No: (047) 4910657
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X3081,
Butterworth,4960 or hand deliver at ERF 9369 Blyth and Robison Streets
Butterworth, 4960. Email: Jobs-ECBTW@labour.gov.za
POST 41/59 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MSS REF NO: HR4/4/9/50
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kariega
36
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. No functional experience required.
Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles, Departmental Policies and Procedures,
Treasury Regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy, Communication (verbal and
written), Interpersonal, Planning and Organising, Analytical, Problem solving.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre. Render a
Human Resource Management. Responsible for training and performance
activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records management in a
Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WX Koba Tel No: (041) 260 0608
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: PO Box 562, Kariega, 5200, Hand
deliver at 15 Chase Street, Kariega 6230. Email: Jobs-ECUHG@labour.gov.za
POST 41/60 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: GAP-PRET-26365014-
20251028-1
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Departmental Procedures and Policies, Supply Chain Procedures,
Administrative procedure relating to an office. Records Management Act. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Communication, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Render administration support services to the Directorate. Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate. Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate. Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Huna Tel No: (012) 309 4407/8
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Online ESSA link:
https://crs.labour.gov.za/sap/bc/ui5_ui5/sap/zcommreg_new/index.html
POST 41/61 : MESSENGER REF NO: HR4/4/1/102
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : eMaxesibeni Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. A valid driver’s license. Experience Zero. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Public Service Act, All Legislations relevant to the
post. Skills: Verbal and Written communication, Interpersonal relationship,
Computer literacy, Time management, Conflict management, Planning and
organizing.
DUTIES : Provide messenger services within the Labour Centre (Daily). Handle
administration of log sheets, fuel cards and fuel vouchers of subsidized
vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Nongena Tel No: (039) 254 7201
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530 eMaxesibeni,
4735, Hand deliver at No 52 Church Street eMaxesibeni, 4735. Email: Jobs-
ECMTA@labour.gov.za
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 2025 TO 2027
(24 MONTHS)
The Department of Employment and Labour would like to invite qualifying graduates to apply to
participate in an internship programme in the 2025 to 2027 financial year. Applicants must be
unemployed graduates, should not have participated in an internship programme previously and must be
a South African citizen. The Department of Employment and Labour is an equal opportunity employer.
Equity Considerations: Priority will be given to applicants from previously disadvantaged background, in
line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, those living with disability will be considered.
Qualifying South African Youth and People living with disability will be given advantage.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted through the link: [LINKSHIELD PROTECTED]
sayouth.mobi/Home/Index/EN
Search for Project 20K
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 midnight (online)
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new Z83 application form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or
on www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies/www.Labour.gov.za. Received applications
using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
37
The completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated
CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of Matric
certificate, academic transcripts (qualification/s with 360/480 credits as
recognised by SAQA and academic record) and ID). All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Applicants wishing to apply for an internship outside
their area of residence must be willing to find their own accommodation and
transportation considering that they will be earning a stipend. Failure to submit
the requested documents/information will result in your application not being
considered. Applicants will be expected to be available for assessments and
selection interviews at a time, date and place as determined by the
Department. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) and National
Diploma should be NQF Level 6 (with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA). All
appointments for internship are subject to the verification and pre-screening
process. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. Due
to the large number of applications we envisage to receive, application will not
be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates
only. Please direct your application to the relevant province and complete a
separate application for each reference number.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/62 : INTERN: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) (X3, 385 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
Provincial Office: East London (Eastern Cape) Ref No: OHS/P20K/EC (X681
Posts)
Provincial Office: Bloemfontein (Free State) Ref No: OHS/P20K/FS (X153
Posts)
Provincial Office: Braamfontein (Gauteng) Ref No: OHS/P20K/GP (X398
Posts)
Provincial Office: Durban (KZN) Ref No: OHS/P20K/KZN (X963 Posts)
Provincial Office: Polokwane (Limpopo) Ref No: OHS/P20K/LP (X108 Posts)
Provincial Office: Witbank (Mpumalanga) Ref No. OHS/P20K/MP (X254 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kimberly (Northern Cape) Ref No: OHS/P20KNC (X102
Posts)
Provincial Office: Mmabatho (North West) Ref No: OHS/P20K/NW (X214
Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: OHS/P20K/WC (X526 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years tertiary Qualification- National Diploma (NQFL6) /
Undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQFL7) in Environmental Health,
Environment Science Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Construction related
Engineering, Occupational Health/Hygiene/Analytical Chemistry, Explosives
Management, Explosives Engineering, Mining/Industrial Engineering.
DUTIES : To assist in conducting inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993, Regulations and
incorporated Standards. Provide administrative support to the inspectors.
Assist in investigation of incidents and complaints reported pertaining to the
OHS Act. Give support to the inspector during enforcement. Assist in compiling
and consolidating reports emanating from such inspections.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/63 : INTERN: BASIC CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT (BCEA) (X3197 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London (Eastern Cape) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/EC (X724
Posts)
Provincial Office: Bloemfontein (Free State) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/FS (X303
Posts)
Provincial Office: Braamfontein (Gauteng) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/GP (X618
Posts)
Provincial Office: Durban (KZN) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/KZN (X545 Posts)
38
Provincial Office: Polokwane (Limpopo) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/LP (X58 Posts)
Provincial Office: Witbank (Mpumalanga) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/MP (X232
Posts)
Provincial Office: Kimberly (Northern Cape) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/NC (X168
Posts)
Provincial Office: Mmabatho (North West) Ref No: BCEA/P20K/NW (X129
Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: BCEA/P20K/WC (X420 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year Tertiary Qualification-National Diploma (NQLF6) /
Undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQFL7) in Labour Relations/ B Com Law/
LLB/Labour law/Commercial Law.
DUTIES : Assist in monitoring compliance by conducting inspections to determine the
level of compliance with BCEA, SD and NMWA. Assist in investigations on
reported complaints pertaining to contravention of BCEA, Sectoral
Determinations and NMWA. Provide administrative support to the inspectors.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/64 : INTERN: EMPLOYMENT EQUITY(EEA) (X260 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London (Eastern Cape) Ref No: EEA/P20K/EC (X29
Posts)
Provincial Office: Bloemfontein (Free State) Ref No: EEA/P20K/FS (X34 Posts)
Provincial Office: Braamfontein (Gauteng) Ref No: EEA/P20K/GP (X57 Posts)
Provincial Office: Durban (KZN) Ref No: EEA/P20K/KZN (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Witbank (Mpumalanga) Ref No: EEA/P20K/MP (X24 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kimberly (Northern Cape) Ref No: EEA/P20K/NC (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mmabatho (North West) Ref No: EEA/P20K/NW (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: EEA/P20K/WC (X104 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification- National Diploma (NQFL6) /Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQFL7) BCom Law/ LLB/Labour Law/Commercial Law.
DUTIES : Assist in monitoring compliance through assisting in the conducting of
inspections to determine the level of compliance with Employment Equity Act
and regulations. Assist with executing investigations on reported complaints
pertaining to contravention of EEA. Provide administrative support to the
inspectors.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/65 : INTERN: EMPLOYER AUDIT SERVICE (EAS) (X1, 076 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London (Eastern Cape) Ref No: EAS/P20K/EC (X69
Posts)
Provincial Office: Bloemfontein (Free State) Ref No: EAS/P20K/FS (X162
Posts)
Provincial Office: Braamfontein (Gauteng) Ref No: EAS/P20K/GP (X99 Posts)
Provincial Office: Durban (KZN) Ref No: EAS/P/20K/KZN (X12 Posts)
Provincial Office: Witbank (Mpumalanga) Ref No: EAS/P20K/MP (X40 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kimberly (Northern Cape) Ref No: EAS/P20K/NC (X68
Posts)
Provincial Office: Mmabatho (North West) Ref No: EAS/P20K/NW (X193
Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: EAS/P20K/WC (X433 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year Tertiary Qualification-National Diploma (NQFL6)/Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQFL7) in BCom Law/ LLB/Labour Law/ BCom Accounting/
Internal Audit/ Auditing/Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/ Financial Information System/ BCompt. Accounting/ Financial
Management.
DUTIES : Assist to monitor compliance by assisting the conducting of inspections to
determine the level of compliance with UIA, COIDA and UICA. Assist with
execution of investigations on reported complaints pertaining to contravention
of UIA, COIDA and UICA. Provide administrative support to the inspectors.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
39
POST 41/66 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE COO (PME) REF NO: HR4/25/CDPE/1HO (X4
POSTS)
Branch: CD PME
SALARY : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma /B-Degree/Public Administration and Management/ Project
Management/ Statistics.
DUTIES : Provide technical advice and monitor the alignment of Provinces Strategic
Plans. Planning, monitoring and evaluation. Governance structures. Manage
the compilation of performance information reports. Manage the
implementation of service delivery improvement strategies.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/67 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE COO (OPERATIONS) REF NO: HR4/25/OPS/2HO
(X4 POSTS)
Branch: Operations
SALARY : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : B-Degree/B-Tech Operations Management/Business/ Public Administration
and Management.
DUTIES : Governance of SDIP, Batho Pele, Service Standards. Analysis of complaints
management system.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/68 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR-GENERAL REF NO:
HR4/25/IES/3HO (X5 POSTS)
Branch: IES
STIPEND : R7 680.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6)/B Degree (NQF7) in Public Finance and
Administration/ Business Administration/Business Management/Local
Governance and Management/Financial Management/ /Administrative
Management.
DUTIES : Assist with project coordination in the Office of the Inspector-General. Provide
help with administrative tasks, and contribute to secretariat services for various
committees. Support budget planning for the branch and procurement of goods
and services.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/69 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE DDG: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/25/ODDG/4HO (X2 POSTS)
Branch: DDG: CS
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma NQF6/ Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Public Administration/
Business Administration/Office Management and Technology/ Management
Assistant/Business Management.
DUTIES : Assist in rendering administration support services to the Office of the DDG.
Assist with controlling the movement of documents and files in the Office of the
DDG. Assist in providing Supply Chain Management support in the Office of
the DDG. Assist with budget planning for the Office of the DDG.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/70 : INTERN: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (X26 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Branch: ER, Head Office, Pretoria Ref No: HR/25/ER1/HO (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/GP (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kwazulu-Natal Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/KZN (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/EC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/WC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/LP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/MP (X2 Posts)
40
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/NW (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/FS (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/ER/NC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB/ National Diploma (NQF6)/ Degree (NQF7) in Labour Relations/ Labour
Law.
DUTIES : Assist with opening misconduct and grievance files. Compile monthly and
quarterly stats. Assist in sourcing case laws. Analyse cases for merits of
success. Admin duties.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/71 : INTERN: TRAINING AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT (X26 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.55 per month
CENTRE : Branch: MAS, Head Office, Pretoria Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/HO (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/GP (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kwazulu-Natal Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/KZN (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/EC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/WC (X4 Posts
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/LP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/MP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/NW (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/FS (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/TPM/NC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6)/Degree (NQF7) Human Resource Management/
Human Resource Development/ Management of Training/Public Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate performance agreements assessments. Capture and verify
performance agreements on PERSAL. Provide secretariat and logistical
support for PMDS Committee meetings. Provide procurement support to the
unit. Provide administration support. Assist in the coordination of training
programmes. Assist in the compilation of WSP, QMR and ATR. Assist in
administration of bursaries. Compile a training database.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/72 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCE OPERATIONS (X90 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Branch: HRO, Head Office, Pretoria Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/HO (X10
Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/GP (X10 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kwazulu-Natal Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/KZN (X10 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO /EC (X10 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/WC (X10 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/LP (X8 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/MP (X8 Posts)
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/NW (X8 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/FS (X8 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/HRO/NC (X8 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6 / Degree (NQF7) Human Resource Management.
DUTIES : Provide support for all HRM functions in Recruitment & Selection and Service
Benefits.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/73 : INTERN: ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR/25/P20K/OD/HO (X4 POSTS)
Branch: MAS
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Bachelor Degree (NQF 7) in Management Services/
Industrial Engineering/ Operations Management/ Production Management/
Industrial and Organizational Psychology/Human Resource
Management/Work Study.
DUTIES : Assist in organisational designed processes. Assist in activities for
improvement of the organisational structure. Assist in development and review
of Job Profiles, job evaluation processes, business process improvement and
change management processes.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
41
POST 41/74 : INTERN: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAMME (X26
POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Branch: EHWP, Head Office, Pretoria Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/HO (X4
Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: KwaZulu-Natal Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP /EC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/WC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/LP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/MP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/NW (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/FS (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/EHWP/NC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree (NQF7)/ National Diploma (NQF6) Social Work, Psychology,
Occupational health and safety.
DUTIES : Assist with implementation of employee health and wellness programmes and
services in the department.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre: 0800 727272
POST 41/75 : INTERN: GENDER, DISABILITY AND YOUTH (X26 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Branch: GDY, Head Office, Pretoria- HR/25/P20K/GDY/HO (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng- Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY /GP (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kwazulu-Natal Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/KZN (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/EC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/WC (X4 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/LP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/MP (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/NW (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/FS (X2 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/25/P20K/GDY/NC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree (NQF7)/ National Diploma (NQF6) Social Work, Psychology,
Social Science, Gender Studies, Youth Studies.
DUTIES : Assist in coordination and implementation of disability mainstreaming, assist in
coordinating performing various activities, events, programmes and focusing
on GDY.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 41/76 : INTERN: POLICY RESEARCH AND MONITORING REF NO:
HR/25/P20K/PRM/HO (X4 POSTS)
Branch: PRM
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) / Degree (NQF7) Human Resource Management.
DUTIES : Assist in the development and implementation of Employment Equity, HR
planning & Policies. Assist in HR data analytics.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
42
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF, FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025, 16:00
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/.Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS post will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the salary for the post of Legal Administration
Officer (MR2): Corporate Legal Support & Litigation (Cape Town) with Ref No:
RCSM09/2025 advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 38 dated 17
October 202515 with the closing date of 10 November 2025 is amended. The
salary for the post is R292 596 per annum, (OSD). Applications can be emailed
to RCSM09-2025@dffe.gov.za The closing date is extended to 24 November
2025.
43
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/77 : DIRECTOR: LITIGATION REF NO: RCSM11/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law or relevant qualification on (NQF7)
within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in the relevant field. Successful
completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme.
Extensive drafting and negotiation experience, with an ability to provide
innovative legal solutions in a highly litigious sector. Experienced litigation
attorney or advocate with knowledge of the relevant environmental legislation
or related experience. Advanced knowledge of South African High Court and
Magistrate Court Rules, and experience in appearing in courts representing
clients. Knowledge of litigation legal administration, demonstrable experience
in dispute resolution mechanisms, policy development, project management,
risk management, audit and legislation procedures. Knowledge: Strategic
coordination/ planning, Business planning, Report/professional writing, Policy
development, Business process management, Organisation performance
management, Risk management, Audit procedures, Research methodologies
and presentation, Project management, Groupwise, Policies, legislation and
procedures, Legal Administration, Public Service and Departmental
procedures and prescripts, Planning and performance management
legislation, DFFE legislation and other supporting legislation, Skills &
Competencies, Advanced skills in policy formulation, Advanced negotiation
skills, Ability to work individually and in a team, Good interpersonal relations,
Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict, Sense of
responsibility and loyalty, Objectiveness, Integrity, Service orientated, Self-
supervision, Highly developed sense of honesty, Protect the confidentiality of
documents, Adequate skills in computer use, Advanced skills in financial,
Advanced skills in respect of formal presentation and public speaking;
negotiation skills, management and project management, Good interpersonal
relations and diplomatic skills Relationship Management, Stakeholder
engagement, Public Relations, Research, Strategic Capability and Leadership,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, issues affecting the environment and general
environmental law is required.
DUTIES : Manage and provide strategic leadership to the Directorate. Manage civil
litigation by and against the department; ensure adequate information and
complete briefs for counsel; prepare submissions to Minister; give instructions
to State Attorneys; provide support during trials and coordinate and ensure that
affidavits are correct and complete. Alert the Minister and DG of judgments,
implications and risks. Consult with stakeholders to obtain instruction to
forward to the State Attorney or to provide oral legal advice, where applicable.
Determine liability in respect of damages and losses. Recover debts and losses
on behalf of the department. Provide legal education and awareness.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mmola Tel No: (012) 399 9339
APPLICATIONS : RCSM11-2025@dffe.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 41/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EP NON-INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
REF NO: EP29/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Springbok
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Environmental Science / Environmental
Management or relevant qualification within the related field as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years in a Project Management role. Knowledge
of Environmental related legislation. Natural resource management. Invasive
alien species management. South African National Standards. Administrative
procedures. Financial management. Project management. Personnel
management. Programme-based natural resource operational planning. Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Human resource and
44
Statistical analysis Extensive management and technical training in order to
understand operational functioning of the programme. Public Service and
departmental procedures and prescripts. Socio-economic development. The
incumbent should have the following skills: Leadership and Management.
Strategic thinking and planning. Analytical and Systems thinking. Conceptual
thinking, Problem solving, Computer literacy, Communication skills, technical
writing skills, Report/professional writing, Mentorship skills, Organising skills,
Facilitation skills, Planning skills. Innovative and proactive. Ability to work long
hours voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Proven leadership
skills. Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work independently and in
a team. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under extreme
pressure. Conflict management and resolution. Ability to organize and plan
under pressure. Ability to collect and interpret information and reports.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of EP Non-infrastructure projects and invasive
alien plant clearing activities within the province. Ensure compliance with EP
Non-Infrastructure projects operational standard, procedures and legal
requirements for all projects implemented within the province. Facilitate the
development and review of project operational plans for EP Non-infrastructure
within the province. Facilitate stakeholder engagement to support EP Non-
Infrastructure projects operations within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Aysen, email address: LAysen@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : EP29-2025@dffe.gov.za
45
ANNEXURE E
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and fully completed and signed Z83 form will not be
considered. Please register or if you are already registered, sign in and apply
for the position/s on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates
will be subjected to security vetting to confirm employment, personnel
suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency assessment prior to the
interview. Short-listed candidates must make themselves available for a panel
interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications, and those not
meeting the requirements, will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to EE and Gender target. In
accordance with the DPSA Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development,
Mandatory Training Days and Minimum requirements, this SMS level
appointment will be subject to the completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The
applicants should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
entry certificate and have completed the course before the appointment. The
cost of the pre-entry certificate is at the candidate’s expense. To access the
pre-certificate course, please visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The GTAC is an equal-opportunity
employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and
reasonable accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/79 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF
NO: G16/2025
Term: Permanent
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive). PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the Salary Level
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration,
Communications, Knowledge Management, Development Studies or a related
field. Minimum of 10 years relevant experience, of which at least 5 years must
be at middle/senior management level, preferably in the public sector. Proven
leadership in strategic stakeholder engagement, knowledge production, and
institutional learning. Competencies Required: Strategic Orientation: Strategic
orientation is about taking a broad scale, long-term view, assessing options
and implications. It demonstrates an intimate understanding of the capabilities,
nature and potential of the department. It involves taking calculated risks based
on awareness of social, economic, market and political issues, trends,
processes and outcomes as they impact the strategic direction of the
department and its linkages with the direction of government. Systems
Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regards to functions or
divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to
connect the initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing
information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for
others. Policy Development and Management: Knowledge of relevant
legislation, the legislative process and public affairs as it pertains to GTAC.
Includes the ability to monitor legislation that is of interest to GTAC. Utilizes a
wide variety of resources and tools to develop, maintain, monitor, enforce and
46
provide oversight of policies and regulations. Financial management:
Knowledge, skills, and judgment required to plan, direct, monitor, and control
financial resources to achieve strategic objectives effectively and responsibly.
Project Management: Knowledge of the principles, methods, or tools for
developing, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources,
including monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance.
DUTIES : To lead and manage integrated functions that advance GTAC's strategic
partnerships, knowledge management, capacity building, and communications
agenda. The role ensures that GTAC effectively collaborates with stakeholders,
produces high-quality knowledge products, and strengthens institutional
capabilities to support government priorities. Strategic Planning, Performance
Monitoring and Compliance: Lead the development, implementation and
monitoring of annual strategic, performance and operational planning. Manage
budgeting, performance indicators, and resource planning in alignment with
GTAC's strategic objectives. Oversee preparation of strategic, operational, and
audit reports required by management and oversight bodies. Ensure
compliance with applicable legislative frameworks including PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and government communication and knowledge management
standards. Implement systems for quality assurance and continuous
improvement across all functions. Stakeholder and Strategic Partnership
Management: Develop and manage partnerships with local and international
institutions, academia, research bodies, and government stakeholders.
Facilitate collaboration agreements, joint initiatives, and knowledge-sharing
networks. Represent GTAC in strategic forums, intergovernmental committees
and external partnerships. Knowledge Management, Research and Capacity
Building: Manage the implementation and continuous improvement of GTAC’s
knowledge management strategy, systems, and processes. Coordinate
GTAC’s research agenda in collaboration with programme units, ensuring
alignment with public finance, infrastructure, and development priorities. Lead
the curation, development and dissemination of knowledge products,
publications and case studies. Design and deliver learning and development
programmes including seminars, workshops, brown bags, and conferences.
Support the establishment and sustainability of internal and external
communities of practice. Communication and Publication Management:
Oversee strategic internal and external communications aligned with GTAC’s
branding and government protocols. Manage the production of newsletters,
brochures, reports, web content, and communication campaigns. Ensure
accessibility and visibility of GTAC’s work through digital and print platforms.
Governance and Institutional Coordination: Provide oversight and coordination
support to relevant internal governance structures such as EXCO, MANCO,
and project steering committees. Ensure that knowledge and insights
generated across programmes inform GTAC governance, planning, and
reporting processes. Coordinate the flow of strategic information between
GTAC and National Treasury. Support institutional alignment with GTAC’s
mandate and strategic direction.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
/kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
47
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/80 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING AND POLICY
REF NO: NDOH 84/2025
Sub-Directorate: Human Resources Planning and Policy
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Human Resource
Management. At least three (3) years’ experience at supervisory level (salary
level 8) in the recruitment and selection environment or human resource
management field. Proven experience in recruitment, selection and
appointment practices as well as proven experience in policy development or
review and approval process. In-depth knowledge and demonstrated
understanding of all relevant human resource management legislation,
directives, resolutions, policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge and
demonstrated understanding of the legislative framework governing
information management within human resources functions i.e. recruitment,
selection, appointment and planning. Knowledge and demonstrated
understanding of working with Human Resources Management Information
48
System data. Knowledge of Human Resources Planning Principles and
Guidelines. Broad knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
regulation and Supply Chain Management legislative framework. Good
communication (verbal and written), leadership, analytical, numeracy, problem
solving, conflict management, interpersonal, presentation, change
management, research, planning, organizing and computer skills (MS Office
package). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To fast track the filling of vacancies through overseeing the recruitment
(advertising) processes. Check and quality assure relevant documentation
required to advertise vacancies. Ensure quality assurance and approval of the
post advertisement by all relevant stakeholders before submission to DPSA
and/or publishing agencies. Render advisory and HR secretariat services to
line management during shortlisting processes. Oversee pre-screening of all
applications received for all posts. Ensure communication with line
management regarding shortlisting. Render advisory and HR secretariat
service to line management during interview processes. Oversee the co-
ordination of interview sessions with all relevant stakeholders. Ensure all post
interview processes i.e. PSCs are conducted. Maintain and update recruitment
and selection database, indicative of the status of funded and approved
vacancies. Provide advice on vacancy status and statistics. Assist in the
development, review and monitoring of the HR Plan, policies and guidelines as
well as the communication thereof. Assist in the development of the HR Plan
and HR Implementation report. Identify policies to be developed/amended or
aligned with environmental development. Supervision of employees. Check
and quality assure work done by employees and ensure compliance with the
legislative framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Moepi Tel No: (012) 395 8614
POST 41/81 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: NDOH 85/2025
Sub-Directorate: Human Resources Planning and Policy
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Human Resource
Management. At least two (2) years experience in human resource
management field. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, and
application of human resources as well as understanding of legislative
framework governing the public service. Knowledge of PERSAL. Good
communication (verbal and written), interpersonal, problem solving, numeracy,
literacy, analytical, client oriented, presentation, planning, organizing and
computer skills (MS Office package). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To fast track the filling of vacancies through overseeing the administration and
implementation of the recruitment and selection process and being pro-active
during the process. Fast track the checking and amending of draft adverts.
Shortlisting of posts and ensuring that candidates meet requirement and
comply with fair labour practice. Arrange interview date. Accurately and
timeously draft submission. Provide advice and maintain and update vacancy
data and statistics. Maintain and update statistics and information for the status
of all posts allocated. Assist in the development, review and monitoring the HR
Plan, policies. guidelines as well as conduct information session/presentation.
Compile well drafted presentation and present information session.
Management of risk. Complete control form for every posts when submitting
the submission file to the appointment section at HRA to process it further.
Prepare interview packages for all panel members consisting of the interview
programme, copy of the advert, score sheet, confirmation of attendance form,
comprehensive application documents of the candidates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Moepi Tel No: (012) 395 8614
49
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Shortlisted candidates
are required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if
specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a
prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate
to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/82 : SPECIALIST CYBER SECURITY ENGINEER REF NO: HRMC 48/25/1 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Information System Security
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Computer Engineering at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’
experience in an IS Security environment. Extensive experience in Cyber
Security or Security Systems engineering. Knowledge and experience in the
application of GITO requirements and Frameworks. Knowledge of the State
Information Technology Agency Act 88 of 1988. Knowledge of Infrastructure
Monitoring, Orchestration and SIEM tools. Knowledge of IT Security industry
certifications, such as Certified Information Systems Security Professionals
(CISSP), Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH). Extensive knowledge of networks,
including all related components and communication protocols. Knowledge of
the e-Government Policy Framework consultation paper developed by GITO.
Knowledge and understanding of PAIA and POPIA, MISS the information
Security Framework (ISO17799), National Strategic Intelligence Act and Draft
Electronic Transactions Bill. Understanding of defence in depth strategies and
how security devices are deployed. Knowledge of server hardening on multiple
platforms. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Excellent abilities and experience in project management, project optimization,
and the use of online systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and
work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer
focus. People management and empowerment. Web services security. Threat
hunting. Ability to translate Technology into English. Engineering and
Technology. Program and project management. Ability to instill appropriate
processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the
Directorate in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
50
digital transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
report writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis.
Influencing, networking, conflict management and resolution skills. Knowledge
and Information management. Decision-making and initiating action. Planning,
organising and time management. Expenditure management. Computer
literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Analyse and identify threats and vulnerabilities for
infrastructure, systems, processes and procedures. Coordinate and implement
Cyber-Security monitoring, analysis and incident response. Lead the
development, communication and implementation of a security applications
strategy and framework. Establish and maintain technical and non-technical
security controls in line with relevant (IS) security requirements. Co-ordinate
and enforce system development processes and provide security engineering
and consulting services across the Department. Implement information
security as a fundamental element of technology architecture. Develop and
implement security solutions for DHA’s data and systems. Research, design
and advocate new technologies, architecture and security products. Ensure
the integration of all security solutions within and across each domain. Develop
a security product strategy and roadmap. Develop, implement and maintain
Information System Security Service-Catalogue, Policies, Procedures and
Standards. Implement Security protocols and measures to respond to security
incidents. Develop and manage cyber treat monitoring, SIEM solutions, and
incident detection systems. Implement security best practices across on
premise, cloud (AWS/Azure), hybrid environment. Ensure successful business
transformation. Foster effective partnerships with all stakeholders. Implement
governance processes, frameworks, policies, procedures, and manage risks.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 41/83 : SPECIALIST: NETWORK CONTROLLER REF NO: HRMC 48/25/2 (X2
POSTS)
Branch: Information Services
Chief Directorate: IS Infrastructure Management
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Information Systems or Computer Engineering at an NQF level 6 as recognised
by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience at an Assistant Director or an equivalent level in
the Information Technology environment. Experience in designing and
implementing network subnets and VLAN’s, Access lists, Secure Virtual Private
Networks and network security. Knowledge of Network administration. In-depth
technical knowledge of network switching and routing. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the State Information
Technology Agency Act 88 of 1998. Understanding of the Departmental
Legislation and Prescripts. Knowledge of National Strategic Intelligence Act
and the Draft Electronic Transaction Bill. Required skills and competencies:
Management and Leadership. Service delivery innovation, client orientation
and customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
Management. Program and project management. Change management.
Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support with digital transformation. Innovation. Excellent
verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-
solving and analysis. Influencing, networking, conflict management and
negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information management. Decision making
and initiating action. Planning, organising and time management. Coaching
and facilitating. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Develop and implement network strategies and plans.
Implement and manage LAN and WAN (VPN) environment including telephony
(VOIP) for the entire Department. Connect systems and servers related to
51
district networks for the availability of services to authorized users e.g. email
systems, accounts, print queues, IP assignments, computer etc. Coordinate
and implement data network activities, computer operations and configuration
for purpose of providing technical advice. Coordinate and implement the design
of computer networks, physical and logical network infrastructures and service
for system operations (e.g. internet, intranet, webmail, FTP service, etc ).
Provide expertise on Mobile connectivity for the mobile workforce (e.g. VSAT,
3G, Wi-Fi, LAN, WiMax). Coordinate, implement and install computer
equipment, network (client and server) software and hardware on a variety of
platforms. Ensure the connection of service on a website and related hardware
and supporting software such as throughput, switches, patch panels and racks.
Address network security threats in service level timelines. Ensure that all
network incidents and problems are reported, investigated and resolved.
Participate in the preparation of bid specifications for required purchases (e.g.
computers router, software (email, firewall, backup)). Provide strategic advice
and guidance on Network matters. Facilitate stakeholder engagement and
collaboration with key account stakeholders, and represent the Department at
various forums. Ensure the effective implementation of strategic objectives and
innovations (digital transformation, solutions, product / process improvements
and data management and analysis), in order to enhance service delivery.
Contribute to delivery of the Information Services business / operational plan
against agreed timeframes and objectives. Implement governance processes,
frameworks and procedures. Ensure effective and efficient management of
human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff
on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 41/84 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SYSTEMS REF NO: HRMC 48/25/3
Branch: Counter Corruption and Security Services
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Electronic and or Computer Electronics at
NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ Middle Management experience
in an electronic security systems environment is required. Knowledge and
understanding of applying GITO requirements and Frameworks. Knowledge of
the e-Governance Policy Framework consultation paper developed by GITO.
Knowledge of the State Information Technology Agency Act, 88 of 1998 and
Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS) and Minimum Physical
Security Standard (MPSS). Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative
Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Knowledge of electronic
system security deployment and maintenance (e.g hubs and monitors). A valid
drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Management
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. People Management and
empowerment. Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer
focus. Financial Management. Program and project management. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills. Sound decision-making, and change
management skills. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well
as enabling technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively
managing the required work. Support digital transformation. Computer literacy.
Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability. Required skills and
competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Report writing and presentation
skills. Negotiation skills. Information Infrastructure Architecture. Data
management systems. Data streamlining and management. Data systems
evaluation. Data design and analysis.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Identify most suitable security system technology in support of
the security objectives. Ensure that servers and IT related equipment and
hardware as tools of trade within the Department, are properly protected.
Ensure the introduction of Environmental Monitoring Systems (EMS) in all DHA
52
server rooms. Effective management and maintenance of security technology
and systems. Provide advice and guidance on security technology and
systems. Ensure that part of the risk analysis in DHA, facilities include the
server room areas. Ensure biometric access in all DHA server rooms, cash
offices, control rooms (where applicable) and high-risk areas such as face
value storerooms. Repair, prepare program and maintain security systems in
the Department, e.g. CCTV. Assemble electronic and security equipment
devices which may include access control and Close Circuit Television (CCTV)
for effective monitoring of threats and intrusions. Facilitate stakeholder
engagement and collaboration and represent the Directorate at various forums.
Ensure the effective implementation of operational objectives and innovations
(digital transformation, records- and document management solutions, process
improvements and information management and analysis), in order to enhance
service delivery. Implement governance processes, frameworks and
procedures. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices
and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
53
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/85 : CLUSTER MANAGER: COURT INTERPRETING REF NO: 37/25/NC/UPT
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Upington (Upington Cluster)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12; National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF level 5 or
any other relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 5; Proficiency in English
and two or more indigenous languages; 6 years’ experience as a Court
Interpreter of which 3 years should be at a supervisory level; A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Listening skills; Time management;
Analytical thinking; Problem solving; Planning and organizing; Confidentiality;
Ability to work under pressure and Art of interpreting.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the cluster legal interpreting and language
services; Develop and implement the legal interpreting and language services
business plan for the cluster; Manage both human and non human resources
of legal interpreting and language services; Manage training and development
of court interpreters; Manage compliance of the code of conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Matjelo Mokgola Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300 OR hand delivers at the
54
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
POST 41/86 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 42/25/NC/KIM
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12; National Diploma: Legal Interpreting (NQF level 5) or
any other relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 5; Proficiency English;
Proficiency in two (2) or more indigenous languages; Five (5) years of practical
experience as a Court Interpreter with minimum two (2) years supervisory
experience; A valid driver’s licence. Skills and Competencies: Communication
skills; Listening skills; Interpersonal skills; Time management; Computer
literacy; Analytical thinking; Problem solving; Planning and organizing;
Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure; Art of interpreting.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage and supervise interpreters; Render
interpreting services; Translate legal documents and exhibits; Develop
terminology; Assist with the reconstruction of court records; Attend to personnel
administrative aspects; Provide effective people management; Procure
Foreign Language Interpreters and Casual Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mokgola Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300 OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
POST 41/87 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR 1 – MR 5) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Douglas (will serve Groblershoop and Kenhardt) Ref No:
34/25/NC/UPT (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Upington (will serve Hopetown, Griekwastad and Prieska)
Ref No: 35/25/NC/DOU (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of
the maintenance system; Maintenance Act and family law matters;
Understanding of all services and procedures in the area of Maintenance;
Proficiency in at least two official languages; A valid driver’s license and willing
to travel extensively. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office);
Good Communication skills (verbal and written); Numeracy skills; Interpersonal
relations; Problem solving skills; Report writing and time management skills;
Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers; Manage duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for the purposes of maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance
Investigators in the performance of their functions; Appear in the Maintenance
Court and conduct proceedings in terms of the Maintenance Act; Implement
Bench Orders; Compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R. Motlekar Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300 OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
POST 41/88 : DEBT COLLECTION CLERK REF NO: 38/25/NC/SA-KIM
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
55
CENTRE : State Attorney: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent; Seven (7) - twelve (12) months appropriate work
experience. Skills and Competencies: Computer Literacy (MS Office); Good
communication (verbal and written); Customer relations; Accuracy and
attention to detail; Problem analysis; Planning and organizational skills; Ability
to work in a team and under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render debt collection processes for the office; Draft
routine correspondence and reports; Draft and type pleadings such as
summons, warrant of execution and judgment notice of sale, Section 65 notice;
Draft affidavits; Provide clerical administration of debt collection; Administer an
effective filing system; Render financial accounting transactions; Calculate
payments and interest towards settlement of debts; Consult with clients and
debtors to negotiate payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Fritz Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
POST 41/89 : COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 36/25/NC/GAL
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Galeshewe
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and
one or more indigenous languages; Three months Practical experience and
driver’s license will be an added advantage. Preferences will be given to
languages used in the area; Applicants will be subjected to a Language test.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good communication
(written and verbal); Administration and organizational skills; Ability to maintain
interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Leshage Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
POST 41/90 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK-CRT (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office Carnavon Ref No: 29/25/NC/CAR (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kuruman Ref No: 30/25/NC/KUR (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Colesburg Ref No: 31/25/NC/COL (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Hopetown Ref No: 32/25/NC/HPT (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Galeshewe Ref No: 33/25/NC/GAL (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Sutherland Ref No: 41/25/NC/SUT (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Communication
(written and verbal); Computer literacy (MS Office); Good interpersonal
relations; Good public relations skills; Ability to work under pressure and to
solve problems; Customer service; Document management; Planning and
organizations skills; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Key Performance Areas: Prepare recordings of court
proceedings; Render clerical and administrative functions; file/store and
ensure safekeeping of court documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Ajimudin Tel No: (053) 802 1300
56
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
57
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P15@dlrrd.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Did not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right no to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POST
POST 41/91 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/15
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma or Degree in Accounting / Cost and
Management Accounting / Financial Management / Financial Accounting /
58
Accounting Sciences / Auditing / Commerce. Minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience in an accounting environment with specific experience in debtors
and leases debtors’ management. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Public
Financial Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Policies, Procedures and
Prescripts, Financial systems including Basic Accounting System (BAS) and
Comprehensive Program for Accounting Control (ACCPAC), Budgets and
budgetary procedures, Debtors, lease and revenue management. Job related
skills: Supervisory, Communication (written and verbal), Planning and
organisation, Interpersonal relations, Computer literacy. A valid driver’s licence.
Teamwork. Confidentially, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Management of lease debtors. Review of reconciled lease register between
Lease Management and Provincial Office’s property management records.
Supervise daily tasks in lease management section. Advise provinces on
collection of outstanding lease receivables. Ensure that all revenue is collected,
and that sufficient proof can be provided. Reconcile Land Administration Web
(Law) Register with Operating Lease Revenue. Review of inputs for Operating
Lease Revenue. Ensure that State Land and Lease System (SLLS) reports is
reconciled, and all new cases are captured on the system. Monitor the monthly
distribution of lease debtor’s statements to Provincial Office’s. Control and
monitor submissions in respect of the write-off of outstanding debt and report
monthly on all writes-offs. Draft and review of policies and Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs) for lease debts. Manage the recovery of departmental
debtors. Manage the instructions / invoices / credit notes received from other
Directorate in the Department regarding departmental debt. Manage, control
and evaluate the database of debtors who owe the department. Trace debtors
who are in debt to the department for outstanding debt. Put the debtor “in mora”
for 30 days. Verify and check documents, letters and submission informing
debtors of their outstanding departmental debt. Negotiate payment terms and
methods with the debtors. Setup payment plan and negotiate with the debtors.
Make recommendations and decisions in respect of re-payments of
outstanding debt. Monitor, verify and check all submissions pertaining to the
referral of outstanding debtors accounts to the State Attorney for recovery.
Control and monitor the follow up with the State Attorneys on a monthly basis.
Monitor the monthly payment of accounts. Maintaining accurate, up-to-date
debtor’s account information by analysing reports and improving work
procedures and frameworks. Control and monitor submissions in respect of the
write-off of outstanding debt and report monthly on all write-offs. Draft and
review of policies and SOPs for departmental debts. Manage month-end and
year-end processes. Effective month / year end closure on BAS and ACCPAC.
Ensure that all transactions and documentation is reviewed for all transactions
to be processed. Monitoring and correction of suspense (ledger) accounts and
expenditure allocations. Verify the reconstruction of debtors’ accounts.
Reconcile rent land and unallocated receipts account done monthly for
inclusion in compliance certificate. Reconcile the systems with the bank
accounts. Clear all unallocated revenue to be or report provided where not
cleared. Provided documentation for revenue that could not be allocated. File
and receive all relevant proof of payments. Analyses and investigate problems
experience on the Debtor System and report the faults to the System Controller
and the contractors of the debtor system. Analysis on a monthly basis all
financial reports on the different financial system to improve the control and
procedures and management of the reports. Present all departmental and
lease debtors’ records for internal and external audit. Compile monthly
compliance and in year monitoring (IYM) reports for departmental and lease
debts. Compile inputs to the monthly operational report. Provide inputs for
annual / interim financial statements operating lease revenue, accrued
departmental revenue and impairment. Reconcile lease revenue receivable
register as working paper to receivables note. Obtain information for working
paper to be from ACCPAC and BAS. Manage the resources of Division
(Physical, Human and Financial). Monitor and ensure proper utilisation of
equipment and reporting thereof. Ensure that all staff sign performance
agreements. Review, evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of
employees. Develop and implement personal development plans. Ensure
capacity and development of staff. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SH Sambo Tel No: (012) 312 8861
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with disabilities.
59
ANNEXURE J
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV ONLY
(with detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your
application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or
before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). All applications must
reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. Documents should not be password protected, and ZIP
files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. All
applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late
applications will be accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to
the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms
of e-mailed applications. Please do not contact the NPA directly after you have
e-mailed your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received.
If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after
the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not
to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months
from the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who are successful must please
note that the npa is not in a position to pay resettlement costs. NB! All
employees considered for appointment to the Investigating Directorate Against
Corruption will be subject to a lifestyle audit and integrity vetting.
ERRATUM: Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions - SCCU: Port Elizabeth
with Ref No: Recruit 2025/496 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular
60
37 dated 10 October 2025; Chief Financial Investigator – AFU: Head Office
with Ref No: Recruit 2024/276 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular
39 dated 24 October 2024; Administrative Clerk: Supervisor – AFU: Head
Office with Ref No: Recruit 2025/180 advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 15 of 09 May 2025; Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions (RH) –
AFU: Polokwane with Ref No: Recruit 2025/390 and State Advocate – AFU:
Head Office with Ref No: Recruit 2025/479 (1 post) advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 34 dated 19 September 2025 are hereby withdrawn.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
RECRUIT 2025/518
National Prosecting Authority
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied should re-apply)
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by the SAQA in
Management/Public Management/Business Management/Human Resource or
related fields. Minimum 8 years’ experience on a senior management level in
a Corporate Services environment. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. A Pre-entry
certificate (Nyukela Certificate) for entry into the SMS obtained from the
National School of Government (NSG). Knowledge and understanding of the
Labour Relations Act, BCEA, Public Service Act, Employment Equity Act,
COIDA, PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Experience and in-depth
understanding of relevant government policies, prescripts, and procedures.
Experience in a legal environment will be an advantage. Must be a South
African citizen and able to obtain a Top-Secret Security clearance. Valid driver’s
licence. Skills, Competencies and Attributes: Strategic capabilities. Ability to
successfully mobilise financial resources. Ability to drive the organisation to a
performance-based culture. Proven mature leadership and management
capabilities. Tactful diplomat and excellent negotiator. Demonstrated ability to
function effectively in a team.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction to advance the achievement of the NPA's mission,
strategic objectives, and targets. Deploy financial and all other resources to
ensure allocation according to the strategic direction and objectives of the NPA.
Review activity reports and financials to determine progress and status towards
attainment of objectives and to revise where required. Direct and guide towards
the Planning, Development, and implementation of strategies for service
delivery improvements. Oversee operations to ensure efficiency, quality,
service, and cost-effective management of resources. Ensure effective and
efficient governance and policy framework for the NPA. Evaluate performance
of various units and management structures for compliance with established
policies and objectives of the NPA. Represent the NPA at parliamentary
committees, meetings, and at any other forum as mandated by the NDPP and
the Director General. Represent the NPA at the DoJCD ExCo and ManCo
meetings. Build a culture and a team driven by performance.
ENQUIRIES : Shirley Magano Tel No: (012) 845 6087
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025518@npa.gov.za
NOTE : The post is created under the Public Service Act, 1994 as amended. The
National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) of South Africa was established in terms
of Section 179 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, to institute
and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State and carry out any
necessary functions incidental to instituting and conducting such criminal
proceedings. The NPA seeks to appoint an experienced and dynamic individual
with high levels of integrity, professionalism, accountability and credibility to
support the Deputy National Director of Public Prosecution: Strategy,
Operations and Compliance (SOC) as the delegated accounting officer. SOC
leads the administration and support services for the NPA and is the strategic
business partner to the prosecution services. The NPA has embarked on an
ambitious five year strategy to rebuild the organisation to ensure that it is
equipped to address the growing challenges of crime. SOC is responsible for
the implementation of the NPA’s strategy and the DDG: Corporate Services will
be required to provide strategic guidance, corporate management and
delegated accounting officer functions for the NPA in line with its approved
61
structure, and relevant delegations from the Director General (DG) of the
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development.
POST 41/93 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Ref No: Recruit 2025/519
Kimberley Ref No: Recruit 2025/520
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To guide investigations and conduct prosecutions of identified cases. To
exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute, and to give any necessary
advice and report to the Head of the SCCU. To ensure that decisions to
prosecute or not prosecute comply with all relevant legal prescripts, the
Constitution, and all applicable policies, procedures and directive. To provide
high level and well researched opinions and reports to the Head of the SCCU.
To manage and direct governance and operations in the SCCU. To monitor and
review strategy and operations. To provide enterprise performance reports. To
render professional advice to the Head of the SCCU, as required. To ensure
that plans are in place to promote good stakeholder and partner engagement.
To ensure that the national strategy and annual plan of the SCCU are
developed and implemented. To ensure that the regional offices meet targets,
continuously analyse, review and monitor operational performance of the
offices in order, inter alia, to identify and operational deficiencies and to monitor
the achievement of strategic objectives and annual targets. To develop any
performance or delivery improvement plans or make such interventions as
circumstances may require. To oversee the development and implementation
of appropriate employee performance management systems. To meet with
relevant stakeholders on a regular basis in order to effectively execute the
mandate of SCCU.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga Sello Dibakoane Tel No: (013) 045 0622
Kimberley Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga e mail: Recruit2025519@npa.gov.za
Kimberley e mail: Recruit2025520@npa.gov.za
POST 41/94 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/521
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate
experience in managing motion proceedings. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Knowledge of
Labour Relations Act. Access to information Act, Legal Administration,
Knowledge of NPA and NPS policies and procedures relevant to the job
functions. Ability to apply technical /professional knowledge and skills.
PRECCA, POCA, CPA51/177, Interpretation Act 33/1957. Performance
Management. Superior Court Act 10/2013 and all rules of courts specifically in
the superior court including the Constitution Court. Knowledge and experience
in money laundering and complex corruption cases. Knowledge of State
Capture recommendations and offences related threats. Preferred knowledge
of FATF. People and Programme Management and Empowerment, Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Project Management. Financial Management and
62
head investigations Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director: Investigating Directorate
Against Corruption. Manage, train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and
stakeholders in respect of all matters, including complex / high profile matters,
in the High Court, the Highest Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Decide
representations. Decide whether investigations should be authorized or
declined in accordance with chapter 5 of NPA Act 32 of 1998. Lead the
investigations and manage the operational, investigative, and prosecution
team. Draft and manage the summons process. Lead enquiries in respect of
summonsed persons. Make application for centralization. Make application for
the addition of racketeering charges. Make applications for extradition, draft all
necessary process, and engage with foreign authorities. Make applications for
mutual legal assistance, draft all necessary process, and engage with foreign
authorities. Liaise with the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) to effect AFU process in
relevant cases including international asset recovery. Liaise with the Witness
Protection Unit (WPU) where necessary. Engage with internal and external
stakeholders. Study, manage, and check voluminous and complex criminal
cases and decide whether the matter is ready for the institution of prosecution.
Draft and check charge sheets and indictments. Draft and manage: the
prosecution strategy plan, witness plan, exhibits plan, and docket security plan.
Conduct prosecutions in regional or high court from enrolment to finalization
including bail, motion applications, pre-trial conferences, conducting of the trial,
lodging of state appeals, responding to appeals by the accused, and arguing
constitutional court matters where necessary. Appear and argue in motion
court, the Supreme Court of Appeal, and Constitutional Court as necessary.
Participate on stakeholder forums, case management forums, and any other
forums on instruction by the Investigating Director. Formulate opinions on novel
questions of law, and other legal matters. Prepare applications or reply to
motions and argue in motion court. Respond to parliamentary queries when
requested. Formulate and/ comment on prosecution policies and/ or directives.
Manage and supervise staff including mentoring, coaching, the provision of
legal guidance, performance management, individual skills assessment, skills
transfer, ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out,
improvement of service delivery, ensure adherence to professional code of
conduct and ethical standards, and the achievement of the units strategic
objectives. Adherence to the highest ethical standards and professional
conduct in keeping with the LPC, NPA values, and the International Standards
of Prosecution and prosecutors.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025521@npa.gov.za
POST 41/95 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office Ref No: Recruit 2025/522
Polokwane (Thohoyandou) Ref No: Recruit 2025/523
Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/524
Mmabatho Ref No: Recruit 2025/525
Port Elizabeth Ref No: Recruit 2025/526
East London Ref No: Recruit 2025/527
Durban Ref No: Recruit 2025/528
Cape Town Ref No: Recruit 2025/529
Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2025/530
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admitted Attorney and/or
Advocate. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate experience in managing motion proceedings.
Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or
criminal procedure. Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be added
advantage. Ability to act independently. Good interpersonal, analytical,
presentation and communication skills. Strong computer skills. Willing to travel
and able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s licence.
63
DUTIES : Undertake litigation and supervision of litigation. Representing the state in all
courts. Conduct civil litigation regarding all aspects of the freezing and
forfeiture / confiscation of property / assets derived from criminal activity. Draft
applications. Prepare heads of arguments and present cases in court. Train
and provide mentorship and guidance to staff. Assist in managing the national
office.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria e mail: Recruit2025522@npa.gov.za
Polokwane (Thohoyandou) e mail: Recruit2025523@npa.gov.za
Nelspruit e mail: Recruit2025524@npa.gov.za
Mmabatho e mail: Recruit2025525@npa.gov.za
Port Elizabeth e mail: Recruit2025526@npa.gov.za
East London e mail: Recruit2025527@npa.gov.za
Durban e mail: Recruit2025528@npa.gov.za
Cape Town e mail: Recruit2025529@npa.gov.za
Bloemfontein e mail: Recruit2025530@npa.gov.za
POST 41/96 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/531
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director which will include oversight of
strategic management and operations management in the region. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to corruption
matters, criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard to the
institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the
acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and
other court documents. Present the state’s case in court, including examination
and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction
and sentence. Study appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of
argument and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the
division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Deal with
representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional
work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community involvement
and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025531@npa.gov.za
POST 41/97 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/532
National Prosecutions Services (Specialized Prosecutions)
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
64
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director which will include oversight of
strategic management and operations management in the region. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Clear knowledge and understanding environmental crimes (land
invasion, protection of species in the sea etc). ability to train environmental
specialist and guide investigations in the field. Study case dockets and other
documents relating to corruption matters, criminal matters, make and review
decisions with regard to the institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases
for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge
sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s case in
court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study appeals and reviews,
prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue cases in the appropriate
court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out
strategic planning for the division and lead staff members towards achieving
the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and align them to strategic
objectives. Development, performance management and assessment of staff
members. Deal with representations and complaints. Ensure that a high
standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025532@npa.gov.za
POST 41/98 : CHIEF PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/533
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Organisational and leadership skills. Ability to
think strategically and innovatively. Ability to manage the performance of the
Cluster. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. General computer
literacy and knowledge of programs in Microsoft Office. Decision making ability.
A valid driver’s license is a requirement.
DUTIES : Manage the performance of the NPA personnel in the lower courts, aligning
such performance to the strategic plans of the NPA. Manage and oversee
resources of the cluster and align them to the objectives of the NPA. Manage,
train and guide Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all litigations in the
cluster. Study, decide and recommend on budget and expenditure in line with
the decision of NPA Administration and NPS. Manage the institution of/and
conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, in any court, including
drawing up charge sheets and indictments, interviewing prospective witnesses
and examining and cross examining witnesses as well as presenting
arguments in court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
Compile reports and enter into correspondence on matters and activities
pertaining to the cluster. Map out and implement strategic interventions for the
cluster to guide prosecutors towards achieving strategic objectives. Check and
ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025533@npa.gov.za
65
POST 41/99 : CHIEF FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/534
Asset Forfeiture Unit
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) qualification in
one of the following: Forensic Investigations, Forensic Auditing, Criminal
Investigation, Certified Fraud Examiner or equivalent. At least eight years’
experience in financial investigation with three years management experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Strategic capability and leadership. General
management skills. People management and empowerment. Administration
skills. Communication written and verbal. Planning and organizing skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and decision-making
skills. Knowledge of legislation and regulations and regulations pertaining to
public service administration. Computer skills, such as MS WORD, MS EXCEL,
MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, etc. Understand profit and loss calculations.
Information Management. Writing Skills. Task/Time management skills.
Strategic thinking. Conflict Management. Interpersonal relations.
Communication. Planning. Analytics. Specialist/ Professional. Research Skills.
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Provide strategic planning and implementation of financial investigations.
Coordinate and manage stakeholder relations in relations to financial
investigations. Manage national financial investigative projects and
administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025534@npa.gov.za
NOTE : This is an NPA Act position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/100 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Ref No: Recruit 2025/535 (X2 Posts)
Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/536
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Admission as advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of PFMA, MFMA and money laundering matters. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution on behalf of the State on Serious, complex and organised
crime cases, corruption and money laundering matters. Advise the police on
the investigation of serious, complex organised crime cases and cyber related
matters. Conduct legal research and keep up to date with legal developments.
Draft charge sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all
courts. Draft heads of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court,
lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do appeals and reviews.
Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Manage performance
assessment, mentor and guide work of Junior Advocates. Offers skills transfer
to lower court prosecutors and investigating officers. Perform ad hoc duties
incidental to middle management services regionally.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
Mthatha Ziyanda Mtwazi Tel No: (047) 501 2632
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga e mail Recruit2025535@npa.gov.za
66
Mthatha e mail Recruit2025536@npa.gov.za
POST 41/101 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/537
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025537@npa.gov.za
POST 41/102 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/538 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult
matters, including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including
indictments and court documents, dealing with representations. Strong
interpersonal and communication skills. General computer proficiency and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. Well-developed skills in legal research
and legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organization and communication skills. Valid drivers’
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Conduct prosecution of serious,
complex and organized commercial crime and corruption matters. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s
case in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management independently. Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Advise
the police on the investigation of serious, complex and organized commercial
crime cases and corruption matters.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (043) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025538@npa.gov.za
67
POST 41/103 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/539
Asset Forfeiture Unit
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. At least eight years post
qualification legal experience in civil and/or criminal litigation. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Valid
driver’s license. Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of
civil and / or criminal procedure. Admitted Advocate and / or Attorney will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be an added
advantage. Strong Computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word,
Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint. Willing to travel and work extended hours. Ability
to do legal research.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of the freezing of
property and obtaining final forfeiture/ confiscation orders. Liaise with
Prosecutors on cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset
forfeiture applications in all courts. Train Prosecutors and Investigators in the
use of Asset Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025539@npa.gov.za
POST 41/104 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (CM-1), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Odi (Moretele) Ref No: Recruit 2025/540
CPP: Klerksdorp Ref No: Recruit 2025/541
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Odi (Moretele) e mail: Recruit2025540@npa.gov.za
CPP: Klerksdorp e mail: Recruit2025541@npa.gov.za
POST 41/105 : STATE ADVOCATE (ATTORNEY)
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Polokwane Ref No: Recruit 2025/542
Port Elizabeth Ref No: Recruit 2025/543
Mmabatho Ref No: Recruit 2025/544
Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/545 (Re-advert)
68
Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/546
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Admitted as an Attorney in terms of
the Attorney Act 53 of 1979. Excellent interpersonal, analytical, presentation
and communication skills. Strong computer skills (Ms Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint). Professionalism and able to act independently. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Excellent communication and administrative
skills, as well as literacy and numeracy skills in so far as being able to
understand profit and loss calculations and basic business finance. Ability to
conduct legal research. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Act as Attorney for the Asset Forfeiture Unit. Execute tasks that by law must be
performed by Attorneys. Attend to diverse types of civil litigation in the High
Court, Magistrate Courts as well as appeals from these courts, including
appeals to the Supreme Court of Appeal. Deal with constitutional issues,
including litigation in the Constitutional Court. Draft and / or settle all types of
agreements render legal opinions, draft and move applications. Attend to
queries from curators on litigation of Asset Forfeiture matters. Collect all taxed
bills of all costs in favour of the state.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : Polokwane e-mail: Recruit2025542@npa.gov.za
Port Elizabeth e-mail: Recruit2025543@npa.gov.za
Mmabatho e-mail: Recruit2025544@npa.gov.za
Pretoria e-mail: Recruit2025545@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e-mail: Recruit2025546@npa.gov.za
POST 41/106 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/547 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Knowledge
of and skills in general prosecution. Good interpersonal, analytical,
organisational and communication skills. Ability to act independently or with
minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Identify and refer matters to
AFU. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025547@npa.gov.za
POST 41/107 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/548 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
69
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Persons in
private practice must provide a certificate of good standing with the LPC. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organisational and communication skills. Ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025548@npa.gov.za
POST 41/108 : STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DDPP: Bhisho Ref No: Recruit 2025/549 (X2 Posts)
DPP: Cape Town Ref No: Recruit 2025/550
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Knowledge
of and skills in general prosecution. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal investigations
and giving instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently with
minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : DDPP: Bhisho Talita Raga Tel No: (040) 608 6800
DPP: Cape Town Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7281
APPLICATIONS : DDPP: Bhisho e mail: Recruit2025549@npa.gov.za
DPP: Cape Town e mail: Recruit2025550@npa.gov.za
POST 41/109 : SENIOR FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/551
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (MMS Level 11), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Nelspruit
70
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in one
of the following: Forensic Investigations, Forensic Auditing, Criminal
Investigation, Certified Fraud Examiner or equivalent. Minimum Five (5) years’
experience in financial investigation. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Strategic
capability and leadership. General management skills. People Management
and Empowerment. The ability to perform administrative tasks efficiently,
effectively, and error free. Excellent written and verbal communication. Ability
to plan and organize work and distinguish between urgent and important
tasks/activities. Ability to achieve excellence in delivering the planned customer
service outcomes (i.e. service levels and standards) for the NPA and ensure
the highest level of customer care and customer satisfaction. Ability to identify
and solve problems by analyzing situations and apply critical thinking in order
to resolve problems and decide on courses of action and implement the
solutions developed in order to overcome problems and constraints.
Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service
administration. Computer skills, such as MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS
PowerPoint, etc.
DUTIES : Conduct case assessments. Conduct case planning. Conduct a detailed
financial investigation in high value and complex matters. Undertake
stakeholder engagements. Undertake all administration functions.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025551@npa.gov.za
POST 41/110 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) Ref No: Recruit 2025/552
CPP: Mmabatho (Molopo) Ref No: Recruit 2025/553
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester) Ref No: Recruit 2025/554
CPP: Wynberg Ref No: Recruit 2025/555
CPP: Witbank (Delmas) Ref No: Recruit 2025/556
CPP: George (Mossel bay) Ref No: Recruit 2025/557
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) & CPP: Mmabatho (Molopo) Flora Kalakgosi
Tel No: (018) 381 9041
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester); CPP: Wynberg & CPP: George (Mossel bay)
Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
CPP: Witbank (Delmas) Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) e-mail: Recruit2025552@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mmabatho (Molopo) e-mail: Recruit2025553@npa.gov.za
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester) e-mail: Recruit2025554@npa.gov.za
CPP: Wynberg e-mail: Recruit2025555@npa.gov.za
CPP: Witbank (Delmas) e-mail: Recruit2025556@npa.gov.za
CPP: George (Mossel bay) e-mail: Recruit2025557@npa.gov.za
71
POST 41/111 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Bellville (Blue downs) (Sexual Offences) Ref No: Recruit 2025/558 (X2
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Sonwabiso Mkwakwi Tel No: (021) 487 7234
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: Recruit2025558@npa.gov.za
POST 41/112 : ICT ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/559
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Information Technology or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Three years
working experience in an IT environment. Knowledge of Microsoft Windows
server 2012, Wide Area Network and User Administration, Active Directory
2012, Exchange 2010, Information Technology Infrastructure Library. LAN
Administration. Knowledge of administering backup and security systems.
Must have the ability to work under pressure. Reliable, organized and be able
to work in a team and independently. Knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite
specifically: Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Ms Project and Computer
programming skills. Administration and communication skills. IT technical
knowledge and application. Willing to work extended hours and willing to travel.
Reliable, tolerant and determined. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to public service administration, specifically: Good Governance and
Batho Pele Principles, The Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act and Electronic Communication and Transaction Act.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor network connectivity and servers. Manage network
security and performance. Provide support on Window Operating Systems and
servers 2012 and MS Exchange client 2010. Knowledge of legislation and
regulations pertaining to public service administration, specifically. Ensure data
is backed up on a regular basis as per schedule. Provide ICT support to
computer users within the office. Log and troubleshoot all ICT problems and
resolution. Keep website and intranet updated. Keep abreast of ICT and
maintain library of information. Provide general end-user and VIP support.
Liaise with third parties towards resolution of technical issues. Manage network
security and performance. Ensure computer security and anti-virus updates.
Control and approve access to server rooms. Monitor servers, racks and
cooling systems. Oversee file management on centralized resource or on
individual workstations. Monitor network and system performance. Provide
administrative support to all ICT related issues. Prepare technical reports on
the operation of systems. Keep inventory of hardware and maintenance
records. Ensure all software are properly licensed.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: (012) 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025559@npa.gov.za
72
POST 41/113 : FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Nelspruit Ref No: Recruit 2025/560
Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2025/561
Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/562
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in one of the following: Forensic Investigations, Forensic Auditing, Criminal
Investigation, Certified Fraud Examiner or equivalent. Three (3) years’
experience in financial investigation. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. The ability to
perform administrative tasks efficiently, effectively, and error free to provide a
record of the activities/deliverables. The means of formal, clear, and persuasive
presentation of facts and ideas. Communication includes the ability to convey
messages to individuals and groups at the appropriate time and to incorporate
listening proficiencies so as to identify ideas, attitudes and actual content.
Excellent written and verbal communication. Ability to plan and organize work
and distinguish between urgent and important tasks/activities. Ability to achieve
excellence in delivering the planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service
levels and standards) for the NPA and ensure the highest level of customer
care and customer satisfaction. Ability to identify and solve problems by
analysing situations and apply critical thinking in order to resolve problems and
decide on courses of action and implement the solutions developed in order to
overcome problems and constraints. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct case assessments. Conduct case planning. Conduct a detailed
financial investigation in high value and complex matters. Undertake
stakeholder engagements. Provide administration support services with regard
to case management.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : Nelspruit e mail: Recruit2025560@npa.gov.za
Bloemfontein e mail: Recruit2025561@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e mail: Recruit2025562@npa.gov.za
POST 41/114 : FINANCIAL ANALYST REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/563
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Accounting, Forensic Auditing or equivalent. Three (3) years financial
analysis experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. The ability to offer direction
and leadership to a team of officials to ensure the attainment of objectives.
Seeks opportunities to increase personal contribution and level of
responsibility. The ability to perform administrative tasks efficiently, effectively,
and error free to provide a record of the activities/deliverables. The means of
formal, clear and persuasive presentation of facts and ideas. Communication
includes the ability to convey messages to individuals and groups at the
appropriate time-and to incorporate listening proficiencies so as to identify
ideas, attitudes and actual content. Written and verbal communication. Must
be able to plan and organise work and distinguish between urgent and
important tasks/activities. Must be able to achieve excellence in delivering the
planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service levels and standards) for the
department and ensure the highest level of customer care and customer
satisfaction. Must be able to identify and solve problems by analysing situations
and apply critical thinking in order to resolve problems and decide on courses
of action and implement the solutions developed in order to overcome
problems and constraints.
DUTIES : Capture and convert data into usable information. Conduct analysis of
information gathered.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025563@npa.gov.za
73
POST 41/115 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/564
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Administration or equivalent. Minimum of at least Three (3) year relevant
working experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. In depth knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration
specifically the Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, EEA and skills
Development Act. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, innovative
and proactive. Decisive under pressure and solution orientation. Knowledge of
PERSAL. Strong organisation and management skills. Knowledge of post
specific skills such as Finance administration, HR management, Information
management and Interpersonal relations. Reliable, organized and able to work
in a team. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as
Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Ensure that finance and supply chain services are administered. Manage
performance management. Ensure that human resource management
services are administered. Provide general administration services. Supervise
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025564@npa.gov.za
POST 41/116 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/565
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Chief Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Investigating Directorate Against Corruption (IDAC): Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in the
field of Communications/Public Relations/ Journalism/ Media Studies or
equivalent. Minimum two (2) years’ experience in a communications
environment. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic Computer skills: MS
Office Suite, MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, MS Project. Editing,
project management, policy analysis and development, supervisory skills,
decision making skills, analysis and problem-solving skills, interpersonal
relations, communication (oral and written) skills. Excellent report writing skills.
Drivers Licence.
DUTIES : Provide media support to the Regional Communication Manager. Assist with
media queries in the region. Event management and public education and
awareness. Provide communication support to regional business units and
corporate managers. Make meaningful inputs to newsletters and other
publications by contributing articles on a regular and sustained basis. Publish
organisational performance information on all internal communication
platforms to keep employees updated. Providing support to internal
stakeholders such as the Strategy Management Office, EWP, IMU, HR,
leadership, and both internal and external local events and campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Isaac Dhludhlu Tel No: (012) 845 6711
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025565@npa.gov.za
POST 41/117 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/566
Strategy, Operations and Compliance
Directorate: Financial Management
Sub Directorate Management Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Financial Management/ Accounting/Auditing or other relevant qualification.
Minimum two (2) years relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Knowledge of Legislation and Regulations pertaining to PFMA Act, Treasury
Regulations, and other government related legislations. Understanding of the
Public Finances in the public sector. Good Communication, liaison, and
presentation skills. Knowledge of LOGIS System, PERSAL, BAS. Computer
74
literacy, including Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook).
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Willingness to travel. Good
administration skills. People management and empowerment. Planning and
prioritising skills. Problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Prepare monthly expenditure reports, analysing expenditure reports to detect
any misallocations. Capture entities on BAS system. Prepare and capture
journals on the BAS system. Prepare and Capture budget inputs on BAS
system. Assist the Assistant Director with the overall management of the
budget and expenditure. Clearing suspense accounts. Maintain a proper filing
system as well as develop and maintain a record tracking system. Serve as a
budget coach to all business units.
ENQUIRIES : Kedibone Sithole Tel No: (012) 845 6082
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025566@npa.gov.za
POST 41/118 : COURT PREPARATION OFFICER
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Bellville Ref No: Recruit 2025/567
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Bredasdorp) Ref No: Recruit 2025/568
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Social Science/Behavioural Studies or equivalent. At least one (1) year
working experience which includes experience gained during training.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Sound co-ordination and counselling
experience. Ability to work well with children. Knowledge of the Criminal Justice
System. Excellent administrative skills, good communication skills and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide holistic and integrated care for the victims of crime, customers and
witnesses within the court environment. Prevent secondary traumatization by
providing a safe and secure environment in which to testify. Implement court
preparation for children and adult victims of crime, customers and witnesses
and perform all other duties in relation thereto. Liaise with and report to the
Prosecutor/Manager. Perform all duties in accordance with general accepted
court preparation technique.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Bellville & CPP: Mitchells Plain (Bredasdorp), Sonwabiso Mkwakwi Tel
No: (021) 487 7234
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Bellville e mail: Recruit2025567@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Bredasdorp) e mail: Recruit2025568@npa.gov.za
POST 41/119 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/569
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Financial Management: Supply Chain
Management - Logistics
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Logistics Management, Purchasing Management, Supply Chain
Management, Public Administration or equivalent. Experience of working on
LOGIS. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of PFMA, Logistical Information
System (LOGIS), Treasury Regulations and Preferential Procurement Policy
framework Act. Written and Verbal communication skills, Planning, organising
skills and analytical skills. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in
Microsoft Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Administer orders on LOGIS for leases, contracts and once off payments.
Capture requests on LOGIS Mainframe. Approve Procurement Advices on
LOGIS Mainframe. Authorise petty cash vouchers and orders on LOGIS
Mainframe. Sending orders to service providers. Liaising with internal clients
on the status of their requisitions. Keeping and updating of requisition and order
register. Compile requisition report on monthly basis.
ENQUIRIES : John Solomon Tel No: (012) 845 6770
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025569@npa.gov.za
75
POST 41/120 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office Ref No: Recruit 2025/570
Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/571
Polokwane Ref No: Recruit 2025/572
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three
years’ experience in rendering support to senior management. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. General computer literacy. Language skills and ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different background.
Good telephone etiquette and above average planning and organizing skills.
Good people skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability
to conduct legal research. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to identify
and handle confidential matters, and to keep confidential matters as such.
Good grooming, presentation, and professionalism. Knowledge of the relevant
legislations, policies, prescripts, and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Receive telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role player if not meant
for the relevant manager. Record appointments and events in the diary of the
manager. Type documents for the Regional Head and other staff within the unit.
Provide high level secretarial, administration support and perform a personal
assistant service to the Regional Head. Draft routine correspondences and
reports. Operates office equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Make
travel and logistical arrangements for meetings and events. Take minutes
during meetings and prepare same for signature in advance. Develop and
maintain an accessible and user-friendly filing system. Prepare travel
documentation and coordinate bookings for international travel for all AFU staff.
Handle procurement of standard items such as stationery and refreshments.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders with regards to al matters pertaining to
administrative functions. Set up schedules for meetings and events. Provide
general administration support to the manager and operation staff. Handle the
procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments for the Manager
and office.
ENQUIRIES : Pretoria: Head Office, Joyce Marogoa Tel No: (012) 845 6700
Mthatha & Polokwane, Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Head Office e mail: Recruit2025570@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e mail: Recruit2025571@npa.gov.za
Polokwane e mail: Recruit2025572@npa.gov.za
POST 41/121 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/573
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, Report writing good verbal and written communication skills.
General computer literacy in MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
analytical skills. Document administration and task time management skills.
Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Keep a well-organized
administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of administrative
tasks. Provide administrative support to the staff in human resources, finance,
procurement and logistical services.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025573@npa.gov.za
POST 41/122 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/574
National Prosecutions Service
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy
76
skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook.
Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
act independently.
DUTIES : Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof. Capturing information on the
electronic case register (ECR). Daily updating of information from court.
Provide dockets electronically to Defence on request of Prosecutors. Liaise
with Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Verify what is happening in
court. Write up information to be captured on access. Contact Prosecutors for
information to reconcile to access. Generate reports from ECR for statistics
purposes. Generate various Statistics Sheet. Draw up reports from Access,
Power BI and PowerPoint tools. Draw reports from ECR for submission to
Supervisors and National Office for monthly reporting. Update electronic case
register as and when additional data becomes available. Attend to queries on
case flow from Prosecutors and SAPS from the ECR. Provide case
administration and document management. Prepare and maintain files.
Release appropriate documents to any other interested party. Maintain E
disclosure platform. Handle Prosecutor caseloads.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025574@npa.gov.za
77
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
The National School of Government (The NSG) contributes to the building of an effective, capable and
professional public service through the provision of relevant, mandatory training programmes.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted in the following ways: (1) using a link, should
you submit your application and CVs to the incorrect link will be regarded as
lost and will not be considered.
FOR ATTENTION : Kindly contact Mr. Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441 6108 or Mr. Mpho
Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441-6017
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 @ 16h00
NOTE : Suitably qualify, dynamic, passionate and experienced persons are invited to
apply for the vacant permanent positions. Applications are requested to visit
the NSG website at ww.thensg.gov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za for information on
the requirements and duties of the position. Applications must consist of: A fully
completed and signed new Z83 form with a comprehensive CV containing
contactable references. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
Candidates should not attach certified documents to the application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or
before the day of the interview. The relevant reference number must be written
on the application form. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise for the post (s).
All appointments are subject to personnel suitability checks such as security
vetting, citizen verification, financial records check, and qualifications
verifications. Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements as well as applications that are received late, will not be
considered. The successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance
agreement within three months from the date of assumption of duties and
where applicable to disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests
within a month. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its employment equity targets. It is
the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender, and disability)
through the filling of this post. The NSG reserves the right not to make an
appointment and to use other recruitment processes. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. The NSG reserves the right not to make
an appointment and to use other recruitment processes. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/123 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: NSG: 21/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus competitive benefits cost to company
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised (NQF 6) in Human Resources Management, Human Resources
Development, Industrial Psychology, Public Management, Public
Administration or relevant field. Minimum of three (3) years’ relevant
experience in Human Resource Management field, including supervisory
exposure to PERSAL transaction authorisations. Certificate on PERSAL
Administration. The job holder will be subjected to a security vetting process,
the clearance level of which will be determined at a later stage. Knowledge:
Knowledge of the Public Service Act & Regulations, and relevant MPSA
Directives and Determinations (understand, interpret and apply). Knowledge of
the legislative frameworks in the public service. Knowledge of the PERSAL
system and registration of system control change (SCC). Microsoft Office suite
Protocol, etiquette and diplomacy Batho Pele Principles. Code of Conduct.
Skills Strong oral and written communication skills Ability to interpret relevant
directives Strong interpersonal skills. Strong planning and organizing skills.
Good writing skills. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and
customer focus. Analytical skills and creative thinking. Capabilities Planning
and organizing Basic programme and project management Problem solving
and analysis Client orientation and customer focus Basic analytics Basic
78
research Basic financial management. Numeracy. Personal attributes:
Professionalism. High level of reliability. Client focused attitude. Keen attention
to detail. Ability to work in a team, Trustworthy and Honest. Maintain very high
levels of confidentiality. Willing to work long hours and outside working hours.
DUTIES : Support the drafting, review and implementation of HRM policies and SOPs.
Facilitate policy communication sessions with employees and Organized
Labour. Maintain a compliance matrix linking NSG policies to relevant
legislative frameworks. Implement HRM policies and compile compliance
reports. Conduct benchmarking and research to inform HRM policy updates.
Develop and maintain an annual recruitment schedule aligned with HR plans.
Draft job adverts, manage applications, and provide administrative support to
panels. Coordinate verification processes including references, vetting, and
qualifications. Compile appointment submissions and communicate outcomes
to stakeholders. Maintain recruitment data and prepare regular reports for
internal stakeholders. Process HR transactions on PERSAL relating to leave,
termination, housing, allowances, Long Service and medical benefits. Respond
to employee queries regarding conditions of service and benefits. Process
exception reports and ensure data accuracy across transactions. Apply
collective agreements and relevant DPSA determinations in daily transactions.
Provide support in the resolution of benefit-related queries and escalations.
Ensure HR establishment data is accurately captured and updated on
PERSAL. Compile and submit periodic HR reports including the HR Plan, HR
Oversight Report, and ad hoc statistics. Maintain records on vacancies,
overtime, and leave trends. Conduct routine data verification and quality
assurance. Maintain a compliant HR registry aligned to records management
legislation. Ensure all personnel documentation is securely stored and easily
retrievable. Support file digitization efforts as part of broader HR modernization.
Provide HR audit documentation requests within specified timeframes. Assist
with tracking unit performance indicators and operational reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441 6108
APPLICATIONS : Apply online via this link: application for employment snr hr practitioner no: nsg
21/2025) – fill out form
POST 41/124 : GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO: NSG 22/2025
Twelve months fixed term contract
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised qualification (NQF level 6) in Graphic Design, Visual
Communication or related field. Minimum of three (3) years relevant experience
in graphic design or visual communication environment. Knowledge: Public
sector legislation, relevant policies and applicable legislative frameworks
(including but not limited to: Public Service Act; Public Administration
Management Act; Public Finance Management Act, Batho Pele White Paper,
Public Service Regulations, Operations Management Framework. Proficiency
in Adobe CC (Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop); basic animation/motion tools
advantageous. Strong visual and typographic literacy, colour theory, layout and
design fundamentals. Excellent stakeholder management, communication,
and project coordination. Understanding of print production processes and web
or digital formats. Skills Oral and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Good writing and presentation skills. Problem solving skills.
Operations management skills. Capabilities Planning and organizing. Basic
programme and project management. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Research and Analytics. Basic financial
management. Numeracy. Personal attributes: Ability to multi-task and
organize, prioritize, and follow multiple projects and tasks through to
completion with an attention to detail. Ability to work independently while
contributing to a team environment. Commitment to quality and continuous
learning. Professional behaviour and sound judgement. Integrity and honesty;
detail oriented; creative and innovative; ability to work under pressure. Travel
and work with extended hours, including away from office, may be required.
Travel and work with extended hours, including away from the office, may be
required.
DUTIES : Interpret briefs and develop visual concepts that meet target, tone, and
branding requirements. Design and finalise layouts for brochures, reports,
presentations, infographics, and social media assets. Prepare ready-to-use
files (print and web‑optimised), ensuring correct formats, dimensions and
79
colour profiles. Maintain and evolve NSG brand identity across all materials,
ensuring compliance with corporate and government style guides. Adapt
designs for multiple platforms (email, web, social, print), ensuring consistency
and integrity. Create digital assets for e‑learning, web graphics and social
media campaigns. Assist with basic motion graphics or animated banners for
digital platforms. Contribute to development of audiovisual content in
partnership with multimedia specialists. Optimise images and media for fast
loading and responsive display across devices. Liaise with IT or web providers
to integrate designs into NSG’s digital channels seamlessly. Oversee multiple
design projects simultaneously, from concept to completion, ensuring that they
are delivered on time, within budget, and to the client’s satisfaction. Interpret
design briefs from NSG units and clarify requirements with stakeholders. Work
closely with communication officers, subject matter experts and external
suppliers (photographers, printers, web developers). Present design concepts
and facilitate stakeholder feedback sessions. Manage design projects to
ensure delivery on time and within budget. Assist with procurement and quality
assurance of print and production services. Team Leadership: Lead and
mentor a team of intern graphic designers providing guidance, skills transfer,
feedback, and support to help them produce high-quality work. Source and
take photographs for usage for internal newsletters and external publications.
Providing guidance on existing trends/technology around graphic design tools
and software. Apply quality control to all outputs to ensure correctness in
layout, typography, image resolution and spelling. Ensure compliance with
NSG brand guidelines, GCIS corporate identity and government accessibility
standards. Maintain a library of templates, images and assets to ensure design
consistency. Proofread designs before release and coordinate final approval
workflows. Archive all artwork and maintain version control documentation.
Design branded materials for internal and external events including banners,
signage, and presentation slides. Collaborate with event coordinators to
ensure timely delivery of design components. Develop campaign specific visual
identities for initiatives and themed programmes. Provide on site design or
layout adjustments where required during events. Produce wrap up (visuals,
photography services, assistance with streaming, videography and video
editing) and post event highlights for reporting and publication. Identify
marketing opportunities to raise awareness around NSG programmes. Liaise
with line function and band officials regarding distribution of NSG material
during events.
ENQUIRIES : Nthabiseng Fuma Tel No: (012) 441 6011
APPLICATIONS : Apply online via this link: application for employment graphic designer no: nsg
22/2025) – fill out form
POST 41/125 : DIGITAL CONTENT CREATOR REF NO: NSG 23/2025
Twelve months fixed term contract
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Graphic Design, Multimedia, Visual
Communication, or equivalent qualification. Minimum of two (2) years relevant
experience in digital content creation, photography or video editing in
communications, marketing or education environment. Knowledge: Basic
knowledge of public sector legislation, relevant policies and applicable
legislative frameworks. Basic knowledge of video editing software, social
media tools and content management systems. Basic knowledge of corporate
communication and marketing practices, including government communication
protocols and corporate identity. Basic knowledge of instructional design,
digital learning platforms, mobile learning and blended learning environments.
Working knowledge of digital content creation, multi-media production tools
and software. Working knowledge of accessibility standards, copyright and
digital content licensing. Skills: Digital content creation. Audio-visual recording
and editing. Proficiency in Adobe Creative Suite (e.g. Photoshop, Illustrator,
InDesign, Premiere Pro) or equivalent software. Understanding and good
usage of Artificial intelligence tools. Interpersonal and communication skills.
Time management and task prioritisation skills. Computer literacy in Microsoft
Office Suite and digital content platforms. Capabilities: Planning and
organizing. Basic programme and project management. Problem solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Basic analytics. Basic
research. Basic financial management. Numeracy. Personal attributes:
80
Participate in professional development growth activities for maintaining
professional knowledge and staying current with practices and trends. Ability
to multi-task and organise, prioritise, and follow multiple projects and tasks
through to completion with an attention to detail. Ability to work independently
while contributing to a team environment. Commitment to quality and
continuous learning. Professional behaviour and sound judgement. Ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with management,
employees, stakeholders, and the public. Integrity and honesty; detail oriented;
creative and innovative; ability to work under pressure. Travel and work with
extended hours, including away from the office, may be required.
DUTIES : Capture and edit video and photographic content for internal and external
communication use. Produce basic promotional videos and multimedia
material for NSG programmes and events. Apply NSG brand and Corporate
Identity standards when producing digital content. Maintain a structured digital
media library, ensuring secure storage and access. Operate and maintain basic
video, photography, lighting, and audio equipment. Update content across
NSG digital platforms, including the website and social media accounts.
Prepare and schedule posts to support campaigns, events, and public
engagements. Monitor basic user engagement and generate weekly/monthly
reports for communication leads. Assist with uploading videos, graphics, and
newsletters across platforms. Flag content issues and suggest user-friendly
content formatting for improved visibility. Design digital posters, banners,
infographics, and templates for use in campaigns. Adapt existing design files
for web-optimised or mobile formats. Support layout adjustments of reports and
presentations using approved templates. Ensure content accuracy, correct
formatting, and CI compliance in design outputs. Assist with preparation of
visuals for digital learning content when required. Provide content production
support for marketing campaigns and departmental events. Assist with
photography, video recording and digital archiving during events. Liaise with
communication staff for materials needed for stakeholder engagements.
Coordinate logistical aspects of digital content production (e.g. venue setup,
equipment). Assist with preparation and distribution of post-event digital
highlights and visual reports. Maintain a digital content tracker and task list for
scheduled assignments. Organise files, asset databases and version-
controlled folders for active campaigns. Support communication team with
general administrative tasks, briefs and record keeping. Keep up to date with
content creation tools, trends, and technologies. Adhere to internal quality and
workflow protocols, including sign-off and approval processes.
ENQUIRIES : Nthabiseng Fuma Tel No: (012) 441 6011
APPLICATIONS : Apply online via this link: application for employment digital content creator no:
nsg 23/2025) – fill out form
POST 41/126 : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: NSG
24/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus competitive benefits cost to company.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate (NQF 6) in Human Resources Management, Human Resource
Development, Industrial Psychology, Public Management, Public
Administration or a related field. Minimum of two (2) years relevant experience
in Human Resource Development field. Demonstrated experience in using
PERSAL. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service Act & Regulations, and
relevant MPSA Directives and Determinations (understand, interpret and
apply). Knowledge of the relevant HR legislation (e.g., Skills Development Act,
Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act). Knowledge of the PERSAL
system and registration of system control change (SCC). Knowledge of the
legislative frameworks in the public service. Microsoft Office suite. Protocol,
etiquette and diplomacy. Batho Pele Principles. Code of Conduct.
Competencies/skills. Strong oral and written communication skills. Ability to
interpret relevant directives. Strong interpersonal skills. Strong planning and
organizing skills. Good writing skills. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Analytical skills and creative thinking.
Capabilities: Planning and organizing. Basic programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Basic analytics. Basic research. Basic financial management.
Numeracy. Personal Attributes: Professionalism. High level of reliability. Client
focused attitude. Keen attention to detail. Ability to work in a team, Trustworthy
81
and Honest. Maintain very high levels of confidentiality. Willing to work long
hours and outside working hours.
DUTIES : Assist in the review and implementation of HRD-related policies, SOPs, and
guidelines. Conduct benchmarking on HRD practices to support continuous
policy improvement. Coordinate awareness sessions and training on new or
revised HRD policies. Monitor compliance with HRD policies and report non-
adherence. Maintain an updated HRD policy and procedure repository.
Coordinate submission and tracking of performance agreements and
assessments. Provide guidance on the application of PMDS tools and policies
to staff and supervisors. Maintain accurate PMDS records for reporting, audit,
and moderation purposes. Support facilitation of moderation and appeals
processes. Assist in the implementation of performance improvement
interventions. Assist in identifying training needs through skills audits and
performance reviews. Coordinate internal and external training interventions
aligned to WSP priorities. Administer SETA-aligned programmes, learnerships,
and bursary tracking. Monitor and report on the implementation and impact of
skills programmes. Ensure compliance with relevant skills development
legislation and reporting requirements. Organise induction and onboarding
sessions for new employees. Maintain records of all orientation and
development initiatives. Facilitate implementation of mentorship and coaching
programmes. Collect feedback and assess the effectiveness of training and
onboarding activities. Provide logistical and administrative support for talent
development initiatives. Maintain an accurate HRD registry, including training
records and personnel files. Ensure safe storage and retrieval of HRD
documentation in line with POPIA and NSG records policy. Prepare reports for
internal use, SETAs, and other regulatory stakeholders. Assist in preparing
documentation and responding to HRD-related audits. Provide general
administrative support to the Assistant Director: HRD and the broader unit.
Preference will be given to Youth, African Males, African Females, Coloured
Males, and people with disability in accordance with our employment equity
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Nthabiseng Fuma Tel No: (012) 441 6011
APPLICATIONS : Apply online via this link: application for employment practitioner hrd no: nsg
24/2025) – fill out form
POST 41/127 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING: DEBTORS REF
NO: NSG 25/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), commencing at plus competitive benefits cost
to company.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 Financial Accounting or Management
Accounting in the field of Commerce, Business and Management Studies. 1 to
2 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: Working knowledge and good
understanding of financial legislation, regulations and guidelines (including
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, National Treasury Circulars and Practice Notes,
Government Accounting Standards, Standard Chart of Accounts, Guidelines
for Preparing Financial Statements). Working knowledge and good
understanding of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation. Knowledge of
financial systems (BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS). Basic knowledge of financial and
administrative procedures of donor funding allocations. Good knowledge of
policies governing expenditure. Practical knowledge of MS Office suite.
Capabilities/skills. Planning and organizing. Basic programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Basic analytics. Basic research. Financial management. Intermediate
numeracy skills. Intermediate financial accounting skills. Basic literacy skills.
Good verbal and written skills. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Intermediate computer literacy. Client orientation and customer focus skills
Personal Attributes: Participate in professional development growth activities
for maintaining professional knowledge and staying current with practices and
trends. Ability to multi-task and organize, prioritize, and follow multiple projects
and tasks through to completion with an attention to detail. Ability to work
independently while contributing to a team environment. Commitment to quality
and continuous learning. Professional behaviour and sound judgement. Ability
to establish and maintain effective working relationships with management,
employees, stakeholders, and the public. Integrity and honesty; detail oriented;
82
creative and innovative; ability to work under pressure. Work extended hours,
and the probability of travel.
DUTIES : Provide support in financial information analysis using various tools,
forecasting models and cost estimates database for financial planning and
decision making. Provide support in analysing the NSG profitability through
analysis techniques. Support in the management of the financial performance
of the organisation by using standard costing, budgetary control, accounting
ratios, cash and funds flow statements, cost reduction programmes and
evaluating the capital expenditure. Support in budget planning, development,
allocation and control in accordance with the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), including MTEF, ENE and AENE. Collect and verify information
collected from budget holders and verify the comparison of expenditure against
budget. Identify variances, balance and rectify variance report. Capture the
budget allocations and accruals correctly and accurately on the financial
systems (BAS, Vulindlela.) Assist in identifying potential cost saving
opportunities and limit fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Manage weekly bank
and cash requisition of funds. Review and reconcile items recorded on the
general and subsidiary ledger. Record Bank statements and bank balances on
the system (BAS, PASTEL, TMS) and update relevant spreadsheets. Provide
support in the preparation of the Appropriation Statement for the NSG. Support
the implementation of processes to prevent unauthorised expenditure and
overspending of the voted funds. Develop and prepare monthly, quarterly and
annual expenditure reports. Compile monthly debt account reconciliations and
management reports, including management of debt cases. Implement and
monitor compliance to management accounting policies (e.g. debtor and
revenue management) and standard operating procedures. Participate in
workshops with relevant internal and external stakeholders on management
accounting policies, procedures and processes. Review accurate capturing of
debt take-on (invoicing) and write-off, including following-up on long
outstanding debts. Compile monthly debtors' statements, age analysis, and
reconciliations. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders regarding the
debt collection of old and prepaid debt. Distribute invoices and credit notes to
the NSG clients via email and courier. Investigate unknown/un-applied bank
balances on the Trade Account. Update and maintain a debtor's invoice and
payment register on Excel. Generate In Year Monitoring reports (IYM) and
Early Warning System (EWS) reports. Assist in the compilation and distribution
of monthly expenditure reports for the business units, as well as other financial/
budgetary reports and statistics. Provide administrative support to the Budget
Control Committee (BCC) meetings. Maintain and update filing systems and
statutory registers. Prepare the Compliance Certificate Preference will be given
to Youth, African Males, African Females, Coloured Males, and people with
disability in accordance with our employment equity requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Nthabiseng Fuma Tel No: (012) 441 6011
APPLICATIONS : Apply online via this link: application for employment state
accountant: debtors no: nsg 25/2025) (2) – fill out form
83
ANNEXURE L
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that post Assistant Director: Information Security and
Compliance with Ref No: S072/2025 was advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 39 dated 24 October 2025, with the closing date of 10 November 2025,
the correct purpose is: To plan, implement, monitor, and enforce compliance in
line with the Minimum Information Security Standards for employees within the
National Treasury. The closing date has been extended to 17 November 2025
at 12:00 pm (Midday).
84
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/128 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REF NO: S094/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To promote and monitor corporate governance in schedule 2 and 3B
State Owned Companies /public entities in compliance with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) for entities reporting to the Minister of Finance.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in law or an equivalent (LLB). A minimum of 5 years’ experience
at a middle or senior managerial level obtained in a corporate governance,
financial institution/ public entities. Knowledge of government’s broad policy
framework, e.g. PFMA, King Codes. Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Implement Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) in SOEs: Monitor
submission of shareholders compacts, corporate plans, and other information
in compliance with PFMA and King Codes on corporate governance in the
public sector. Monitor compliance with enabling legislation, PFMA, Companies
Act and applicable governance prescripts. Review and process applications in
terms of the PFMA. Governance reviews of corporate plans, shareholder
compacts and annual financial statements for schedule 2 and 3B entities
reporting to the Minister of Finance. Promote Corporate Governance in SOEs:
Provide advice on remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
Review legislative and governance instruments such as the enabling
legislation, remuneration policies, memorandum of incorporation, etc. Provide
inputs on the tabling of corporate plans and annual reports. Coordinate the
appointment of members of boards and executive management in line with the
entities enabling legislation or memorandum of incorporations. Coordinate the
annual general meetings and provide advice on matters to be transacted at the
annual general meetings. Provide institutional support for Board evaluations.
Provide secretariat services to the Fiscal Liability Committee. Provide
governance services to all other schedule 2 and 3Bs entities. Dividends from
Public Entities: Maintain and update database on dividends declared and
received by the government from the public entities ’s projected dividends for
the MTEF period. Coordination of Contingent Liability: Provide secretariat
services to the Fiscal Liability Committee.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/129 : DIRECTOR: SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT FUNDS REF NO: S099/2025
Division: Tax and Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To monitor and analyse developments in household and retirement
savings, and provide policy advice on the regulation, supervision, and reform
of the retirement fund industry across both the private and public sectors.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum qualification (equivalent to
NQF level 7) in Economics or Law or Finance or Investment Management. A
certificate in retirement funds law will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained in the
retirement fund industry. Knowledge and experience of the retirement fund
legislation and regulatory framework, i.e. Pension Funds Act, Regulations,
Conduct Standards. Demonstrate an awareness of retirement fund
investments and governance requirements. Knowledge and exposure to
different retirement fund structures. Knowledge of retirement fund role-players.
Ability to compile reports, research papers and present findings to various
stakeholders. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ , prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
85
DUTIES : Development of Savings and Retirement Fund Policy Framework: Research
and recommend policy changes to reform the retirement fund industry and
improve household savings. Enhance the. availability and use of savings
products, especially for low-income consumers. Support consumer awareness
on the culture and importance of saving. Retirement Fund Regulation and
Legislation: Participate in the formulation of legislative and regulatory
interventions. Monitor the implementation of legislation and regulation of the
retirement fund industry and their policy impact. Participate in the enactment
of necessary law/s through Parliament. Retirement Fund Governance: Monitor
the governance of retirement funds and formulate relevant policy changes.
Retirement Fund Investments: Monitor retirement fund investment issues and
their policy impact and provide policy proposals where gaps are identified with
Stakeholder Engagement: Engage with the Financial Sector Conduct Authority
and the Office of the Pension Funds Adjudicator on policy, regulatory and
legislative gaps to be addressed. Advise stakeholders on issues regarding the
government’s retirement fund policy framework. Represent the National
Treasury in external and governmental forums on savings and retirement
reform-related issues.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/130 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEBT ISSUANCE AND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S083/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To finance the government’s borrowing requirements through the
issuance of government securities in the domestic and international capital
markets; and to manage the government’s existing stock of debt to broaden
the total investor base.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Finance or Statistics or Investment Management or Mathematical Sciences
with exposure to money, banking and capital markets. A minimum of 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director or equivalent
level obtained in financial markets, with fixed income trading or research
experience an added advantage. Knowledge and experience in quantitative
research methodologies. Knowledge and experience in market analysis related
to information for utilisation in the broader business. Knowledge and
experience in dealing with various foreign interest rate markets and currencies.
Experience in qualitative and quantitative analysis of domestic and foreign
capital markets.
DUTIES : Stakeholder Engagement: Finance borrowing requirement in domestic and
international capital markets: Provide accurate inputs required to formulate
funding strategy, budget review and medium-term budget. Undertake
quantitative and qualitative analysis on debt management issues and
advise/inform the issuances of government securities in the domestic and
international capital markets. Provide support during the weekly bond auctions,
follow up, report on problems arising from the auctions, and provide inputs into
the compilation of auction reports. Keep up to date with the funding
requirements and liaise with relevant stakeholders. Perform analysis of
Treasury bills, bond auctions, and secondary market performance, and provide
recommendations to optimises issuance strategy. Perform market, quantitative
and yield curve analysis for bond auction announcements and recommend
bonds to be issued. Oversee issuance planning and recommend strategies for
enhancing liquidity across the yield curve, including Treasury bills and floating-
rate instruments. Lead the structuring and execution of complex debt
instruments including ESG bonds, Sukuk (Ijara, Wakala, hybrid), infrastructure
bonds, and other innovative products, Direct analysis and recommendations
on derivative instruments such as cross-currency swaps, interest rate swaps,
and repo facilities to optimises the sovereign’s debt profile and cash
management. Stakeholder engagement: Develop and implement tools that will
maintain and broaden the investor base. Act as lead liaison with key market
participants including primary dealers, institutional investors, MDBs, rating
86
agencies, IMF, World Bank, and SARB. Present and defend complex funding
and market development strategies to internal governance committees,
Cabinet, and external stakeholders with technical rigor. Develop and implement
investor websites to improve stakeholder engagement. Engage domestic and
foreign investor stakeholders, through roadshows and other mediums. Build
strong networks with local and global DCM players to anticipate shifts in
investor appetite, regulatory frameworks, and funding opportunities. Disclose
listing requirements in domestic and offshore bond issuance: Initiate the annual
filing process of the 18K form with foreign stakeholders like the U.S. Security
Exchange Commission and Japan. Adhere to disclosure and listing
requirements associated with domestic and offshore bond issuance. Engage
stakeholders on general information in the sourcing and exchange of
processing. Verify information for correctness and ensure their accuracy.
Management of domestic and foreign currency debt: Monitor the debt portfolio
and implement strategies to reduce the re-financing risk and cost, Initiate
frequent market and portfolio analysis of qualitative and quantitative domestic
and foreign currency debt information. Monitor domestic and international
economic events and their impact on the South African economy and the debt
portfolio. Analyse and advise on prudent debt management policies and
recommend corrective debt strategies for implementation. Perform research
on markets volatility and conduct general market research: Initiate research on
capital markets pertaining to market volatility in the prudent management of
debt. Lead applied research on advanced capital market structures, ESG
integration, and global best practices in sovereign funding, Produce high-
quality, policy-relevant papers and technical reports to support decision-making
at senior government level. Perform research on local and international
markets to stay abreast of developments which may have an impact on debt
management issues. Analyse and provide inputs to briefing notes and
speeches. Market Development & Ecosystem Building: Lead initiatives to
develop and operationalise the Bond CCP, ETP, and other market
infrastructure, ensuring alignment with international best practice. Drive
strategies to deepen domestic and foreign investor participation, including
retail savings initiatives and engagement with pension funds, banks, and asset
managers. Provide strategic inputs into South Africa’s role in regional and
continental debt market development initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/131 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: ENVIRONMENTAL AND FUEL TAXES REF NO:
S057/2025
Division: Tax and Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply).
Purpose: To conduct economic research and policy analysis on the design and
implementation of carbon pricing policies, transport taxes and incentives to
promote decarbonisation of the transport sector.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum bachelor’s degree at (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Environment,
Energy or Transport Economics and Environmental Science or Environmental
Management. An Honours degree would be advantageous. A minimum of 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an Economist level or
equivalent in economic research and policy analysis. Knowledge and
experience in quantitative techniques and tools, excel and other statistical
packages and econometric modelling. Knowledge and experience in climate,
transport and energy policy development. Knowledge and experience in public
policy processes and stakeholder engagement.
DUTIES : Market Based Fiscal instruments to Support Climate Change Mitigation and
Adaptation in the transport sector: Conduct economic research, policy analysis
and reviews on price-based instruments including carbon taxes, incentives,
charges and subsidies to support the decarbonisation of the transport sector.
Conduct economic research, policy analysis and reviews on quantity-based
environmental fiscal instruments to support Climate Change adaptation and
mitigation including carbon market mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris
Agreement, and carbon budgets and sector emission targets, Consult with the
Departments of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Transport, Mineral
87
and Petroleum Resources, Electricity and Energy and the South African
Revenue Service on climate and transport related policy proposals. Liaise with
legal drafters to ensure that climate and transport related tax proposals and
amendments are incorporated into law as intended. Carbon and transport
related excise Taxes: Conduct economic research, policy analysis and
stakeholder consultation, on existing transport-related excise taxes, including
Fuel taxes, Diesel fuel tax refund, Vehicle taxes. Compile and maintain fuel
price and fuel levy databases, reviews, and reports on transport fuel taxes
including: Annual fuel levy adjustments, Fuel sales, volumes, and prices,
Petrol, diesel, and liquefied petroleum gas differentials, Diesel fuel tax refund,
Clean fuels initiatives, Biofuels initiatives, Road accident fund levy, Interact with
the Departments of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Transport,
Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Electricity and Energy and the South
African Revenue Service. Liaise with legal drafters to ensure that carbon and
fuel tax policy proposals and amendments are incorporated into law as
intended. General environment issues: Formulate tax policy advice, provide
comments on Cabinet memorandums, government policy strategies; and
analysis of macro-economic impacts of climate, environment, energy and
transport policy.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/132 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: IT AUDIT REF NO: S073/2025
Division: Office OF The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage the IT audit plan for NT, ASB, IRBA and GTAC in
accordance with the planned IT audit methodology.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor of Technology or
degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Information Systems or Computer
Science or Internal Auditing or Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA). A
certification as a Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) or Risk and
Information Systems Control (CRISC) or Information System Security
Practitioner (CISSP) will be an added advantage. A minimum of 4 years of
which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained
in IT Auditing. Knowledge and experience of Strategic IT Governance, IT Risk
Management, IT Strategy, IT Contracts and Service Level Agreements.
Knowledge of Information Security and IT Policies, Procedures, Software
Licensing, Project Management, Audit Standards, Business Continuity and
Disaster Recovery. Experience in Application Control Reviews, Business
Process Mapping and Analysis and Data Analytics. Knowledge of General
Control Reviews, Networking, Firewalls, Routers, Web Applications, External
and Internal Threat and Vulnerability Assessments, Virtual Private Network,
Wireless, Encryption, Operating Systems, Databases, Physical Security and
Information Security.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership and stakeholder management: Contribute to raising
awareness of the Internal Audit division with specific emphasis on IT Audit
through stakeholder engagement. Execute plans and guidelines to ensure
completion of strategic and operational activities. Liaise, co-coordinate,
establish and maintain good relations with stakeholders on audit-related
matters. Contribute towards initiatives or recommendations by the Audit
Committee. Audit Process - Risk assessment, audit plan, assurance and
consulting services: Manage all IT audits and perform quality assurance.
Contribute to the review of the annual risk assessment. Contribute to the
development and alignment of the 3-year rolling audit plan and detailed annual
IT audit plan based on the strategic and operational IT risks. Provide advice
and guidance on IT Audits to be conducted and propose solutions for
challenging technical related problems. Ensure completion of all IT audits as
well as the findings register. Initial quality assurance of all IT audit reports
before submission to the Senior Manager IT Audit. Providing feedback and
clarification to the client relating to IT audit reports, control and technology
related matters. Resource management: Manage and develop IT Audit
resources to ensure effective and efficient delivery and overall achievement of
IT Audit objectives. Develop the training plan for IT Audit. Perform resource
allocation and prioritisation across IT audit projects. Process improvements
and research: Keep abreast of global trends, new developments in the IT audit.
88
Identify areas for improvement to ensure a sustainable Audit Strategy, IT Audit
Methodology and Resource Plan to ensure continuity of IT audit services
Management reporting: Manage the IT audit reporting processes, Assist with
the development of the audit committee packs. Present IT Audit reports to
clients. Provide feedback on the progress against the approved IT audit plan.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DATABASE DEVELOPMENT AND
MANAGEMENT REF NO: S095/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To assist in the provision of reliable financial data related to the
provincial sphere of government for the analysis of policy formulation and
reporting in compliance with regulatory requirements.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree
(equivalent to NQF level 7) in Computer Science or Accounting or Economics
or Business Economics or Management. A minimum of 3 years’ experience
obtained in database development, data warehousing and data integration.
Knowledge and experience in report development. Knowledge and experience
in utilisation of MS Office suite of products, with particular emphasis on
Microsoft Excel.
DUTIES : Data Storage: Assist in the development of a formal database housing revenue
and expenditure data covering all aspects of the budget cycle. Assist with the
reviewing of the data model to enhance data management and improve
efficiency of data extraction and reporting. Data Gathering: Provide technical
support in developing reporting systems, templates and tools, to provide
accurate and reliable data for internal and external usage. Enhance processes
and procedures regarding automation and data extraction from financial
systems for reporting purposes. Data Integrity: Apply classification standards,
circulars and practise notes consistently and correctly. Maintain data between
National Treasury and other institutions. Assist with the application of changes
to the Economic Reporting Format and the Standard Chart of Accounts to
history data to guarantee the consistent application of data. Data analysis:
Provide technical support to internal and external clients regarding data
analysis tools and techniques. Provide data for Treasury publications and
internal and external documents.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/134 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT AUDIT REF NO: S097/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide innovative, business processes and internal control review
pertaining to good corporate governance in National Treasury and its entities.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Internal
Auditing or Information Systems; A Certified Information Systems Auditor
(CISA) will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained
in an Internal Auditing environment. Knowledge of Information Security and IT
Policies, Procedures, Software Licensing, Project Management, Audit
Standards, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery. Knowledge of
Strategic IT Governance, IT Risk Management, IT Strategy, IT Contracts and
Service Level Agreements. Experience in Application Control Reviews,
Business Process Mapping and Analysis and Data Analytics. Knowledge of
General Control Reviews, Networking, Firewalls, Routers, Web Applications,
External and Internal Threat and Vulnerability Assessments, Virtual Private
Network, Wireless, Encryption, Operating Systems, Databases, Physical
Security and Information Security.
DUTIES : Assist with Project Planning: Maintain personal time records and manage
allocations and time budget. Assist with the preparation of analytical reviewing
of financial data. Collate the relevant data. Document Information and
Transaction Flow: Implement and management information flows in respect of
89
financial, policies and procedures in compliance with relevant statutes. Identify
auditable processes within the National Treasury. Analyse information process
flows from beginning to end as recorded within the management accounts.
Keep record of information on flow chart or system description. Identify
Systems Risk and Controls and Perform Audit testing: Analyse risk and critical
control points in a system within an applicable process. Quantify consequences
of a break-down in a control and conduct a preliminary evaluation of the
controls. Perform compliance tests (tests of the operation controls) and adopt
appropriate statistical sample as designed for utilisation of audit software in
data extraction methods. Prepare a risk register and perform audit test per
programme. Document test results on working papers for record purposes.
Evaluate Results and Develop Control Mechanisms: Evaluate working papers
in accordance with auditing standards and methodology. Prepare
recommendations for the improvement of procedures and controls. Extrapolate
(if need be) impact of error on sampled population and prepare report based
on identified recommendations. Engage internal stakeholders and assist in the
follow-up of outstanding audits.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 41/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PROCESSES REF NO: S098/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To develop, review, evaluate, maintain and align business processes
and related policies and procedures to harvest knowledge assets, retain
institutional memory, and promote learning, innovation, organisational
business improvement, training, and knowledge sharing.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelors’ degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Business
Administration or Business Analysis. A certification in business process re-
engineering will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ experience
obtained in a business process mapping and business analysis environment.
Knowledge and experience in modelling applications, e.g. Case Wise, scenario
testing techniques. Process mapping software e.g. Visio, Visual Paradigm,
Casewise, Aris, etc.
DUTIES : Business Processes: Develop and maintain existing business processes and
procedures based on process studies, best practices and analysis of
information verified with relevant stakeholders. Review policies and changes
in the operational environment and suggest enhancements. Align the “how-to”
guides with current environments and maintain the e-learning sites. Identify
and harvest knowledge assets within Business Units and ensure alignment of
knowledge management processes. Support organisational improvement
initiatives through process optimisation and innovation. Integrate M&E insights
into business process reviews to ensure continuous improvement and
responsiveness to evaluation findings. Administration and Awareness: Assist
with maintenance of process mapping and procedural related work. Compile
progress reports and action logs for execution. Assist with projects that involve
business process mapping work. Conduct interactive engagements with
stakeholders to align business processes and procedures, and the
implemented thereof. Prepare presentation and conduct workshops and
awareness sessions. Stakeholder Engagement: Conduct research into best
practices that are applicable to stakeholder requirements. Gather information
during workshops and advise during feedback sessions on gaps and the
remedial ways for implementation. Facilitate training and knowledge sharing
sessions to embed process understanding and institutional memory.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
90
ANNEXURE M
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Free State/Bloemfontein: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, cape Town
Gauteng: Johannesburg High Court: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand
delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg
Mpumalanga/Mbombela: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to,
Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial
Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
KwaZulu-Natal: Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
91
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: kindly note that the correct email address for the advertised
internship programme on circular 40 with reference no: 2025/297/OCJ should
be emailed to 2025/297/OCJ@judicairy.org.za and for reference no
2025/298/OCJ Should be emailed to 2025/298/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/136 : IT COORDINATOR REF NO: 2025/305/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE Free State Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and a National Diploma in Computer Engineering/ Information
Technology or equivalent qualification at (NQF level 6) with 360 credits as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three years’ experience in general IT
desktop support. ITIL Foundation Certificate will be added advantage, A
driver’s license will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Project
and Systems Management: Knowledge as a Network Administrator, Help Desk
or First Line Support, Knowledge of government prescripts, regulations, and
laws, Knowledge of development of users training manuals, guidelines and
procedures and drafting of a budget, Knowledge and experience in evaluation
of End-User training, Knowledge of Public Sector IT environment, LAN,WAN
Project and Change Management, Experience in IT Asset Management,
Effective communications skills (written and verbal), Problem Solving and
analytical skills, Coaching skills, Good interpersonal relations skills, Training
and presentation skills, Planning and organization skills, Decision making
skills, Technical skills, Computer skills, Project management skills, Customer
Service orientated, Time management skills, Ability to multi-task is essential,
Ability to work under pressure, Flexible, Confidence, Ability to meet deadlines,
Accountable, Attention to detail and Assertiveness. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Optimise Business Applications and transversal systems in the Province,
ensure availability of systems to all officials who are entitled to use them,
Ensure the installation of the correct packages on computers for the smooth
running of systems i.e. antivirus, and any related updates, Create and update
spreadsheets for all users of the system and monitor access provided to these
systems, Manage additional and removal of profiles on system servers,
Maintain the IT assets at the provincial level, oversee the lifecycle of hardware
and ensure compliance to the Asset Management Policy. Conduct ICT
infrastructure operations assessment within the and compile reports
accordingly, Identify areas within the court/service centres that need ICT
upgrades and identify the most suitable viable solutions to enhance service
delivery, Assist Judges and Managers with virtual hearings and meetings
(Teams & Zoom) and provide audible recordings, Provide scrapping certificates
for all out of warranty equipment where required, Participate on the provincial
disposal committee for disposal of IT goods, Respond to all IT support
requests, enquiries and calls logged with the OCJ and DOJ&CD helpdesk and
escalate when necessary, Monitor and assist with calls that are logged to the
service desk and check if they are attended to as per the SLA, Configure
workstation to access LAN and Wide Area Network (WAN) resources (internet,
intranet, VPN, Business Applications), Monitor and report on all the work done
by external service provider in respect to IT, Track and manage all LAN faults
escalated to SITA or Head office until they are resolved (faulty switches and
network points), Communicate the status of all escalated LAN faults to the
92
affected user community and the provincial head. Manage IT contracted
service providers at the provincial level: Manage all third parties providing
network services and ensure that SLA is met, Escalate all calls that are not
resolved correctly to the ICT Service Management, Liaise with stakeholders to
discuss ICT issues and contracted services within OCJ, Manage and facilitate
rollout of all new systems and IT infrastructure in the Court / Service Centres,
Monitor and facilitate adherence to applicable SLAs by all service providers,
Facilitate repair of all faulty IT equipment (printers, desktops, laptops) still
under warranty and also of those out of warranty only if economical to do so.
Provide provincial reports and adhoc reports with regards to the ICT projects
and System Utilisation: Provide monthly ICT report to the DCO on completed
and forth coming projects within OCJ, Schedule monthly meetings with service
provider assigned to the province for project updates and infrastructure
reporting, Provide IT Assets Inventory Report (printers, laptops, desktops) and
Provide report on warranty status of IT equipment (printers, laptops, desktops).
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries Technical enquiries: Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/305/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 41/137 : LAW RESEACHER REF NO: 2025/306/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and a Degree in LLB at NQF level 8. A minimum of two
(2) years’ in the relevant field and a valid Driver’s license. Superior court or
litigation experience will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ legal
research experience will serve as an added advantage. Skills and Knowledge:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act and related labour laws & Departmental
policies, Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995, Labour and Labour
Appeal Court Rules and Practice Manual, Employment Equity Act, Practice
Manual of the Court, Sound understanding of South African law and judicial
system, Interpretation and application of the law, Batho Pele Principles.
Communication skills (verbal and written), Problem solving and decision-
making skills, Excellent research and analytical skills, Report writing and
editing skills, Problem solving skills, Financial management skills, Strategic
skills, Analytical skills, Presentation skills, Planning and organizing skills, •
Computer literacy, (Word, PowerPoint & Excel,). Applied Strategic Thinking,
Budgeting and Financial Management, Communication and Information
Management, Customer Focus and Responsiveness, Developing Others,
Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict
and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and
Organizing, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management and
Team Leadership. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, Analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, Provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, Carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, Provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material, Study all the relevant material and provide a thorough
analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, Research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, Quality assure all references and
footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original text to ensure
correctness and accuracy, Correct mistakes (typos) with the help of track
93
changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed changes. Ensure
that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case law, practice
directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of
recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case law, provide
support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have access to
the latest legal information, Keep up breast with recent developments in
relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms Dlomo Tel No: (010) 494 8341
HR Related Enquiries; Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/306/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 41/138 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/307/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and a National Diploma in Legal Interpreting/ or equivalent
qualification at (NQF level 6) and A minimum of one (1) year practical
experience in Court Interpreting. A valid driver’s license. Proficiency languages
:SiSwati, Xitsonga, Sepedi, Isizulu, English, Afrikaans will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of relevant acts and regulations,
Knowledge of culture, Knowledge of subject area. Know how to translate and
be able to keep to time frame, Computer literacy (MS Office), Effective
communication skills (written and verbal), Time management, Good
interpersonal relations skills, listening skills, Customer service skills, Problem
solving skills, Planning and organising skills, Decision-making skills, Analytical
thinking, Excellent English language skills, Problem Solving, Flexible,
Motivational, Able to work under pressure, Meticulous, Self-driven and People-
centric. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services: Interpret in Children’s Act matters, criminal
proceedings, Civil proceedings, Domestic Violence Act matters, Older Persons
Act matters, Family, Protection from Harassment Act matters, Labour,
Maintenance Act matters, Child Justice matters, Inquests, and quasi-judicial
matters, interpret in small claims courts, Interpret in disciplinary hearing,
Interpret in Conciliation and Arbitration, Interpret in confession, Interpret in pre-
trial proceedings and consultations, Liaise with the Supervisor for foreign
language interpreters, Interpret from source to target language during Court
proceedings, pre-trial, consultation, quasi, judicial, Interpret non-verbal
gestures, dramatization and confessions, Engage with the judiciary to confer
on the readiness and/or performance of a particular interpreter in court.
Render legal and quasi-judicial and language service: Render audible and
clear interpreting from source to target language without embellishment or
omissions while preserving the language, Convey the correct language in
accordance with language usage of the speaker, Control the speaker and
ensure that the citations are interpreted correctly, Interpret non-verbal gestures
dramatization and confessions. Translate legal documents and exhibits: Study
and analyse the source document, Conduct the necessary research and
consult with the relevant parties, ensure accurate cite translation documents,
Check, edit and revise the translated document, Translate mechanically
recorded audio material. Develop terminology and provide support in the
reconstruction of records: Accumulate terminology and develop database,
Populate the terms and respective meaning in the glossary register, Gather all
trial documents, Attend to mechanical recordings and Compare notes of the
Presiding Officer, State and Defence.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms E Smith Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/307/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
94
POST 41/139 : USHER MESSENGER REF NO: 2025/308/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 - R 192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Kwa Zulu Natal Local Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Equivalent qualification at NQF level 4), No experience required. A
driver’s License will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collecting statistics, Knowledge of the MS Office
package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel
Knowledge of Office Administration, Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing Public Service, Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Communication skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills,
Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical skills, Computer Literacy
skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Typing
skills, Customer services orientation, Self-management, Self-motivated,
Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time bound, Assertive and Flexible.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Render administrative support functions to the Judges and the Court Room:
Escort members of the bench to and from court and attends Judges' chambers
with counsel, Facilitate order in court rooms before calling the Judges in,
Organize the court crew and inform them of the starting times, in line with the
daily court roll, Maintain silence and order in the court rooms when Judges
enter or leave, Check the correctness of motion court rolls, generation of copies
and dissemination according to the distribution list. Maintain Court Rooms’
records: Check and arrange the criminal and civil files (to be taken to the court
rooms), Report the missing files to the Judges, File/ archive the documents,
registers, etc. Facilitate the smooth- running of the court rooms: Assist with the
scheduling of court matters (motion opposed), Arrange the representation of
cases, Negotiate the Court Rooms allocation with Judges in times of Court.
Room shortages. Collect and distribute court files: Sort and check the court
files, Keep the court files safe and Circulate Court rolls according to the
distribution list.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms K Marias Tel No: (031) 492 5502
HR enquiries: Ms. SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/308/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 41/140 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/309/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Division of The High Court
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10). Relevant experience required. Must be semiskilled with
other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry or mechanical.
Must be willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must be physically
healthy. A trade certificate in plumbing, electrical, bricklaying, carpentry or
mechanical will serve as an added advantage. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety act. Knowledge on how to
operate power tools. Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in
Word Processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel. Knowledge of office
administration. Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Communication skills (verbal & written).
Problem solving skills. Good public relations skills. Monitoring and analytical
skills. Computer Literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Report writing skills.
Typing skills. Self-management. Self-motivated. Creative thinking. Teamwork.
Ambitious. Time bound, Assertive and flexible. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court. Relocate office equipment as and
when required. Coordinate removal of damaged office furniture for disposal
and repair/replace broken furniture. Safety awareness with use of all
95
equipment on all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of
toilets, basins and drains. Fit and fix doors and locks. Ensure that all work done
complies with the Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental
standards and specifications are observed. Oversee the delivery of office
equipment. Execute minor general building maintenance. Report breakages to
the supervisor for repairs by the landlord. Repair damaged office equipment.
Attend to minor repairs. Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers. Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers.
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work. Facilitate repairs to
water leaks. Ensure that electrical systems are working safe. Conduct routine
inspection of the building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis. Accompany
landlord and contractors during repairs/maintenance. Record inspection done
on infrastructure and keep all records of all maintenance done at the court.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries; Ms IM Seakge Tel No: (051) 492 4523
HR Related Enquiries; Ms D Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/309/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates of youth in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 41/141 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/310/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), or equivalent qualification. A valid driver’s license. 3 Years
experience in handy man or general worker, in areas including but not limited
to plumbing, electrical, repair and maintenance work. A trade test certificate in
plumbing, electrical, bricklaying, carpentry or mechanical will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Occupational Health and
safety act. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power
tools, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Communication skills (verbal & written),
Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical
skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills, Typing skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive and Flexible. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Perform minor general building maintenance and repairs. Attend to minor
plumbing, electrical, bricklaying, mechanical, carpentry and general handyman
duties. Conduct routine inspections of the building on daily, weekly and monthly
basis to identify faults. Breakages and general maintenance needs. Report
unathorised movement of equipment, attending to general work as required
including driving Judges’ vehicles for repairs, servicing, car washes drop off
and pick ups from and to the airport and purchasing of goods for the office.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2411
HR Related Enquiries; Mr RAF Wesso at (087) 106 1775
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/310/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
96
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https:www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/. Note: For emailed applications, please submit a single PDF
document or one attachment per application to the email address designated
on the specific position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility
to ensure that their application is successfully submitted using the required
single pdf document.
97
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/142 : ADMIN OFFICER: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER (GIS) REF NO:
2025/141 (X5 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three-year tertiary qualification in Geographical Information
Systems, Geo-Informatics, Geography, Related Science Field or Asset
Management with relevant experience in GIS, Asset and Property
Management. Experience in State Land administration and verification of
immovable assets (land and buildings) will be an added advantage. Valid
driver’s License. Computer literacy. Decision making skills. Negotiation skills.
Excellent inter-personal skills and Communication skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Ability to work under pressure and deadline
driven.
DUTIES : Geographical referencing of administrative geographical data: Analysis, geo-
coding and spatial representation of land and buildings information. Maintain
GIS databases and use GIS software to analyse the spatial and non-spatial
information. Investigate, and spatially link the cadastral data to the IAR.
Perform quality assurance on assets loaded in the Mobile Immovable Asset
Register (MIAR) system to ensure accuracy and correctness of the immovable
assets information. Convert various formats of data into GIS data format, such
as text or spreadsheet files with latitude and longitude coordinates, aerial or
satellite imagery and manual digitising of map images. Research and
document GIS processes to assist in enhanced workflows. Assist the field
workers with physical verification queries and challenges to support the
physical verification process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143/2043
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-70@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau.
POST 41/143 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT: ASSET REGISTER MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/142
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/equivalent qualification Report writing skills, good interpersonal
relations, good general office administrative and organization skills, Basic
numeracy, computer literacy.
DUTIES : Support the effective management of the workflow of the component. Support
the administration of functions of the office. Liaise with relevant stakeholders
regarding outstanding information and issues. Co-ordinate meetings and
minutes. Manage due dates of correspondence. Manage visits and visitors.
Prepare documentation for meetings. Presentations and reports. Administrate
office correspondence. Documents and reports. Manage sorting and filing of
documents. Co-ordinate office activities and organise meetings. Workshops
and document records thereof. Draft and type correspondence and
documents. Manage communication and flow of information in the office.
Arrange travel and accommodation. Process forms and documents related to
claims, payments and invoices relevant to the office. Check and verify budget
breakdown captured on BAS. Capture requests on LOGIS. Confirm availability
of funds. Trace and monitor payment of services provided to the unit. Effective
co-ordination of office activities and nature of organised meetings and
workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-71@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
98
POST 41/144 : ADMIN CLERK: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER (GIS) REF NO: 2025/143
(X7 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Computer literacy.
Decision making skills. Negotiation skills. Excellent inter-personal skills and
Communication skills. Good Verbal and written communication Skills. Ability to
work under pressure and deadline driven. (Relevant work experience in
Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Immovable Asset Management and
State Land Administration and Experience in mapping and verification of
immovable assets (land and buildings), interpretation of CSG diagrams and
Deeds information will be an added advantage).
DUTIES : General administrative responsibilities and functions to support the Assistant
Director and Deputy Director with GIS activities related to the mapping and
verification of Immovable Assets which may include: Extracting/digitising and
loading of the state owned assets (land and buildings) in the Mobile Immovable
Asset Register (MIAR) system; Assisting the field workers with physical
verification queries and challenges to support the physical verification process;
Assisting the Assistant Director and Deputy Director with monitoring tasks
during implementation phase of various Immovable Asset Register projects;
Monitor that all improvements within the state owned properties are
appropriately identified and recorded in the IAR; Verify documents or
information from numerous sources (Deeds Office, Surveyor-General,
Municipalities, etc.); Perform such other duties, appropriate to the role, as may
be required by the Assistant Director and Deputy Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-72@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
99
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will
not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. All shortlisted candidates for SMS and/or MMS (MMS
optional) posts will be subjected to (1) a technical exercise, (2) a generic
managerial competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Department of Small Business Development is committed to the
pursuit of diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
presentively in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/145 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BILATERAL AND
MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS REF NO: ASD IRBMA
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in
International Relations / Economics / Development Studies / Social Sciences /
BCom International Trade / Administration / Political Studies or equivalent /
related as recognised by SAQA. 3 years’ relevant experience in International
Relations / Intergovernmental Relations / International Market Access Support
Environment. Training in MS Office packages. Have competencies in:
Communication (verbal and written), Programme and Project Management,
Client orientation and customer focus, Change Management, Problem solving
and analysis, Research, Diplomacy, Stakeholder relations and Service Delivery
Innovation.
DUTIES : Support the implementation of the DSBD’s International Relations Strategy and
Policy Framework. Provide Bilateral and Multilateral Agreements support by
providing technical support during the negotiation, drafting, and review of
bilateral and multilateral agreements and Memoranda of Understanding
(MoUs), identifying emerging trends and opportunities in regional, continental,
and global platforms that benefit MSMEs and Cooperatives, develop and
maintain monitoring tools to track progress, obligations, and outcomes of
implemented agreements etc. Provide technical support in DSBD’s bilateral
and multilateral agreements negotiations aimed at supporting MSMEs and Co-
operatives development, includes but not limited to: keeping abreast of current
economic and geopolitical developments, conducting research on current
developments that impact on bilateral relations and multilateral engagements
aimed at supporting MSMEs and Co-operatives development, identifying
economic trends and developments in multilateral organisations, participating
in bilateral and multilateral agreements areas of collaboration negotiations etc.
100
Identify stakeholders in government, international organisations, development
agencies and diplomatic institutions, coordinate and maintain strategic
relationships with stakeholders to facilitate the implementation of agreements
and maintain an updated database of bilateral and multilateral agreements and
cooperation projects. Monitor and analyse international political, economic,
and trade developments with implications for DSBD programmes. Provide
advisory reports on risks, opportunities, and strategic positioning for MSMEs
and Cooperatives in global markets. Communicate with stakeholders, clients,
management & colleagues: Written, Verbal, and formal
presentations/workshops/information sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
Recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the above-
mentioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., REF NO:
ASD IRBMA”
POST 41/146 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS – MARKET
OPPORTUNITIES REF NO: ASD IRMO
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in International Relations / Economics /
Development Studies / Social Sciences / BCom International Trade /
Administration / Political Studies or equivalent / related as recognised by
SAQA. 3 years’ relevant experience in International Relations /
Intergovernmental Relations / International Market Access Support
Environment. Training in MS Office packages. Have competencies in:
Communication (verbal and written), Programme and Project Management,
Client orientation and customer focus, Change Management, Problem solving
and analysis, Research, Diplomacy, Stakeholder relations and Service Delivery
Innovation.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation of the Department of Small Business
Development’s international relations strategy and policy framework, inclusive
of, by not limited to: supporting the implementation of the Department’s
international relations and market access strategy and aligning programme
activities with bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and policy
frameworks. Coordinate Market Access Programmes by providing technical
and logistical support for outward trade missions, export promotion activities,
exhibitions, and B2B engagements, identifying appropriate international fairs,
exhibitions and trade platforms informed by market intelligence and identifying
and securing partnerships with export councils, development agencies, foreign
missions, private sector and funding institutions for joint implementation of
market access initiatives etc. Identify export development stakeholders,
coordinate and maintain relationships with various stakeholders within the
Value Chain & Market Support as it relates to market opportunities and respond
to enquiries from international trade and investment partners, agencies, export
bodies and business support institutions etc. Conduct research and analysis
on socio-economic and geopolitical trends affecting international trade
opportunities for MSMEs and Cooperatives, establish partnerships with
reputable institutions (trade commissions, embassies, export councils,
research bodies) to source up-to-date market intelligence and produce market
intelligence reports, sector briefs, and advisory notes to inform departmental
decision-making. Communicate with stakeholders, clients, management &
colleagues: Written, Verbal, and formal presentations/workshops/information
sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
Recruitment8@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the above-
mentioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF NO:
ASD IRMO”.
101
POST 41/147 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS- INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION REF NO: ASD IRIC
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in International Relations / Economics /
Development Studies / Social Sciences / BCom International Trade /
Administration / Political Studies or equivalent / related as recognised by
SAQA. 3 years’ relevant experience in International Relations /
Intergovernmental Relations / International Market Access Support
Environment. Training in MS Office packages, Excel skills for business,
including advanced formula techniques, data cleaning and preparation, and
spreadsheet design and documentation. Have competencies in:
Communication (verbal and written), Programme and Project Management,
Client orientation and customer focus, Change Management, Problem solving
and analysis, Research, Diplomacy, Stakeholder relations and Service Delivery
Innovation.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation of the Department of Small Business
Development’s international relations strategy and policy framework, inclusive
of but no limited to supporting alignment of programmes and initiatives with
South African government policies, plans, and priorities and conducting
research and analysis of international policies, socio-economic trends,
geopolitical developments, and legislation that may impact the Department’s
international cooperation strategies. Provide technical support towards the
implementation of international cooperation partners (donor organisations)
assistance by coordinating and facilitating the development of agreements,
conducting research on current developments that impact international
cooperation, facilitating reporting in line with Government and donor
organisation requirements, conducting desktop research on current
developments that may impact partnerships and international cooperation
aimed at supporting MSMEs and Co-operatives development etc. Coordinate
regular engagements with international partners to strengthen collaboration,
develop and maintain a comprehensive database of stakeholders,
programmes, and projects. Liaise and stay informed on developments within
the Official Development Assistance (ODA) environment. Communicate with
stakeholders, clients, management & colleagues: Written, Verbal, and formal
presentations/workshops/information sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
Recruitment3@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the above-
mentioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF NO:
ASD IRIC”
102
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at Tourism House,
17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025, 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file, indicating the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Failure to do so, your application being disqualified. Applications quoting
the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each advertised post must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C, and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered, and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following the communication
from Human Resources, and such qualifications (s) and other related
documents (s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a (1) practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical
and generic requirements, and (2) an ethical conduct test. Candidates will
further be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification, and employment
verification). Some of the interviewed candidates for Senior Management level
vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day competency assessment that will test
generic competencies. Appointment will be subject to the signing of the
performance agreement, employment contract, and annual financial
disclosure, and must attain a security clearance applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/148 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
DT26/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year NQF 7 qualification in Social Work/ Social Science
or Psychology. Five years’ working experience in an EHW environment in the
public sector of which three years must be at supervisory level. Registration
with a Professional Body. Ability to manage highly confidential information.
103
Relevant Employee Health and Wellness programme training. Knowledge of
Employee Assistance Programmes. Knowledge of Public Finance Prescripts
and policies. Experience in stakeholder engagement. Experience in planning
and coordinating the implementation of EHW programmes. Ability to provide
vision and setting direction for the unit and facilitating internally driven and
externally suggested pro-active programmes. Planning and execution skills.
Coordination and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for developing and facilitating
approval of the Wellness Operational Plan for the financial year; facilitating
employees’ access to Information Technology (IT) within the department to
enable them to use the contracted service provider’s e-Care Programme
(electronic health and wellness assessment); coordinating awareness
sessions, marketing and communication campaigns on the Employee
Assistance Programme (EAP) services from the EAP service provider to
encourage the optimum utilisation of EAP services; facilitating managerial
consultancy and supervisory engagement on employees’ matters; managing
critical incidences of trauma to troubled employees and liaising with the
contracted call centre for further referral; coordinating and monitoring the
implementation of the Departmental Sports and Recreation Programme;
conducting trend analysis on the implementation of the external EAP services
and in-house EAP interventions to determine the effectiveness of the services;
conducting exit interviews with leaving officials from the department and
compiling a report; conducting project planning meeting, quality check of the
submission and project plan on all EHW interventions and Health Calendar
Event; developing and facilitating approval of the SHERQ Operational Plan for
the financial year; facilitating the presentation of the annual implementation
plan to the external service provider for the promotion of Occupational
Diseases and Health Education Programmes; conduct trend analysis on the
implementation of Injury-on-Duty and First Aid based on the OHS prescripts in
the department and compile a report on the findings; coordinate and compile
the report on the DPSA Systems Monitoring Tool (SMT) by liaising with relevant
units within the department; facilitate appointments of OHS representatives to
monitor health and safety in the department; coordinating SHERQ committee
meetings; managing and facilitating the provision of employee wellness and
implementation of Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) programmes;
developing and facilitating approval of the Health and Productivity
Management Operational Plan for the financial year; coordinating the
implementation of the Healthy Lifestyle Programme to address diseases and
psycho-somatic challenges in collaboration with the external EAP service
provider; conducting planning meetings, quality checking submissions and
project plan on Health and Productivity Management programme and Health
Calendar to present the proposal to the approving authority; monitoring the
implementation of the Occupational Health Education and Promotion in line
with the Employee Needs Survey Report; analysing the trend of sick leave and
ill health, including incapacity leave to detect the level of abuse of sick leave
by staff members to determine if there are possible wellness interventions
required; developing and facilitating approval of the HIV & AIDS, STIs and TB
Operational Plan for the financial year; conducting trend analysis on the HIV
and AIDS Testing and TB Mainstreaming Framework; assessing cases
referred; developing treatment plan; providing services of the needs identified;
rendering critical incidences of trauma to troubled employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Thobejane Tel No: (012) 444 6131
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment26@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 41/149 : PARLIAMENTARY OFFICER REF NO: DT27/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year NQF 7 qualification in Political Science/ Public
Administration or a relevant NQF 7 qualification. Five years’ working
experience in government and parliamentary work of which three years must
be at managerial (Assistant Director) level. Knowledge of the PFMA, the
104
Constitution, Money Bills, Tourism Act and Regulations, Treasury Regulations
and guidelines, the National Assembly, National Council of Provinces as well
as Joint Seatings. Sound and in-depth knowledge of the political, parliamentary
and cabinet processes in South Africa. Working knowledge of parliamentary
rules and procedures (tabling questions, introduction of legislation etc). Political
acumen. Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered
by the executive authority’s portfolio. Understanding of the communications
environment. Working knowledge of the media. Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant HR prescripts and application as well as understanding of the
legislative framework governing the public service. Knowledge of MISS and
applications of other security matters and regulations at Parliament. Ability to
work under pressure. Good coordination and facilitation skills. Good
communication skills. Good time management skills. Good Executive office
management skills. Good computer skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for rendering parliamentary
services on behalf of the Department and SAT; monitor parliamentary
programmes of the tourism Portfolio Committee and advice the department and
its entity on legislative processes, and parliamentary rules, policies and
procedures; monitoring parliamentary documents to keep the department and
SAT informed on any action that has a bearing on its portfolio; ensuring that
the department and SAT are briefed on decisions taken by relevant
parliamentary structures; tabling all required reports timeously on behalf of the
department and SAT according to the Rules of Parliament; monitoring the Acts
that have an impact on the Department’s output; monitor and inform the
department and SAT on possible issues that might be raised by
parliament/relevant committee; compiling reports on parliamentary matters for
Management meetings; compiling a tracking system to monitor all
parliamentary matters; communicating parliamentary programmes to the
department and SAT; coordinate relevant documents and presentation required
for parliamentary events/meetings; coordinating, manage and process all
departmental, SAT and other stakeholders’ submissions/briefing documents to
Parliament; managing and processing of parliamentary documents in
compliance with Parliament’s guidelines and programmes; ensuring that
responses and reports are quality assured to reflect correct information, advice
on matters requiring further attention before tabling to Parliament; controlling
the overall packing and dispatching of official documents for parliamentary
sessions; coordinating oversight visits to the department’s projects in
provinces; identifying parliamentary questions with implications to the
department and communicate the contents and deadlines to the department;
liaising with the Parliamentary Questions Office regarding the questions
referred to the Minister to ensure its relevance to the mandate of the
department; managing and overseeing the approval of submissions by the DG
on replies according to the Parliament’s prescripts; ensuring replies are
checked for factual correctness, proof read and submitted for ministerial
approval; managing the process of uploading parliamentary questions on the
website; maintaining good working relationships with key stakeholders and
other parliamentary structures; fostering a co-operative relationship with
relevant parliamentary structures; attending portfolio and Select Committees
as well as other parliamentary structure meetings; ; manage the DG’s
parliamentary office; assets and staff allocated to the office; manage the use
and maintenance of the official vehicle in the Cape Town office; serving as a
Transport Control Officer for ODG in Cape Town; manage the performance and
appraisal of staff the DG’s office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Makhubedu, Tel. (012) 444 6376
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment27@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 41/150 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DT28/2025
This is a readvertisement. Persons who previously applied must reapply.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
105
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year NQF 7 qualification in Commerce, Financial
Management, Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management. Five
years’ working experience in Supply Chain Assets and Logistics Management
of which three years must be at Assistant Director. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management prescripts. Knowledge of Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the
Logis system. Knowledge of the BAS system. Knowledge of the PFMA.
Financial management. Good leadership skills. Good presentation skills.
Computer literacy (MS Office). Effective planning and organising skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for designing and developing
asset management systems and policies; conducting physical asset
management planning and verification; monitoring and reviewing the capturing
of all assets in the asset register; monitoring and reviewing the allocation of
assets to asset holders; overseeing and reviewing the monitoring of assets in
accordance with relevant policies and procedures; identifying and facilitating
procurement of replacement assets for redundant and obsolete assets;
providing monthly asset reconciliation reports; conducting investigations on
assets reconciliation variance, losses, damages and unverified assets;
updating the fixed asset register and inventory lists; providing submissions on
recommendations to departmental disposal committee’s considerations;
providing inputs on assets notes to the quarterly, interim annual financial
statements; evaluating and recommending IT related procurement; facilitating
the issuing of orders for goods and services (system and manual); facilitating
payment of goods and services to service providers; facilitating delivery of store
stock to internal clients; facilitating the availability of store stock in the
warehouse; verifying and signing-off the year plan for the warehouse
stocktaking; managing the conducting of stocktaking; ensuring the signing of
stocktaking reports; ensuring the approval of balance adjustments; enforcing
compliance with the terms and conditions of the contracts; authorising/
certifying correctness of the accrual report; consolidating commitment and
accrual report for the financial year end; managing commitment and accrual to
the minimum level; managing the filing of procurement batches awaiting
deliveries; providing inputs to financial statements in terms of inventory,
accruals and commitments; undertaking all administrative functions required
with regard to financial and HR administration; developing and managing the
operational plan of the sub-directorate and reporting on progress as required;
developing, implementing and maintaining processes to ensure proper control
of work; compiling and submitting all required administrative reports; managing
performance and development; quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel No: (012) 444 6773
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment28@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 41/151 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: DT29/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognised NQF 6 qualification in Supply Chain Management
or related fields. A minimum of three years’ working experience in the
appropriate field. Insight of bids administration procedures and contract
administration. Insight of procurement procedures. Knowledge of supply chain
management policies and prescripts. Knowledge of the public service policies
and legislations. Ability to operate a computer. Good analytical thinking and
negotiation skills. Good verbal and communication skills. Sound organising
and planning skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for opening files, allocating bid
numbers and closing dates for bids to be advertised; ensuring timeous
advertisement of bids on the Departmental website and the National Treasury
E-Tender Portal system; forwarding details of bid advertisements to line
managers; publishing awarding of bids on the Departmental website and the
National Treasury E-Tender Portal system; preparing bid documents for
collection on day of advertisement; opening of the bidding box on closing date
and time; opening and marking of all bids received; filing of bid proposals in the
bulk filer; uploading documents on the EDMS; issuing bid files and proposals
to AGSA for audit purposes; following up on evaluation of bids with line
managers; liaising with Committee members regarding the signing of
106
documents; preparing documents and delivering documents to the meetings
boardroom; liaising with members in time regarding any meeting changes;
providing technical support to the Bid Evaluation committees when necessary;
informing line managers on the outcome of bid meetings; preparing and issuing
appointment letters; updating list of all Transversal Contracts; ensuring SLA’s
received are filed accordingly; effectively monitoring the expiry date of
contracts; informing line managers three months prior to expiry of contracts;
compiling monthly report of transversal contracts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel No: (012) 444 6773
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment29@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Males and White Males as well as youth and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
107
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided, the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 24 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
and the selection panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will
further recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-
based assessment. The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela
Programme) as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must
be completed before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the
SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/152 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE & LOGISTICS REF
NO: SID&ETB-028
Overview: To coordinate development of economic infrastructure and efficiency
of logistics along various economic development corridors of industrial nodes,
through planning and implementation of related policies and programmes.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA in
Economics/Development Planning Studies or related field. 3–5 years’ relevant
managerial experience in logistics infrastructure planning and implementation
of industrial development projects in both private and public sector. Key
Requirements: Demonstrated experience in logistics infrastructure planning,
design, and implementation of industrial development projects. Knowledge of
Spatial & Regional Industrial Development Frameworks, broader government
economic policies, and intergovernmental relations. Strong project
management, contract management, and stakeholder management skills.
Ability to conduct research, compile reports, and provide evidence-based
policy inputs. Competence in financial management, people management and
empowerment, planning and organising, problem-solving, and analytical
thinking. Excellent communication (written and verbal) and relationship
management skills. Computer literacy (MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Economic Infrastructure & Logistics Project Management: Formulate concept
notes and proposals for strategic hubs and economic corridors. Provide inputs
into prioritised strategic infrastructure and logistics. Implement project plans
108
and maintain records of project activities. Programme Support: Support key
national and regional programmes (e.g. NDP, Master Plans, Regional Industrial
Development). Identify opportunities within SA’s infrastructure development
programmes. Promote participation of South African entities in domestic and
regional infrastructure initiatives (e.g. North-South Corridor, PIDA).
Stakeholder Management: Establish and manage relations with government,
SOEs, industry and international partners. Collaborate with internal and
external stakeholders to deliver infrastructure programmes. Advise customers
on dtic interventions related to economic infrastructure and logistics. Policy
Implementation: Provide advice on strategic interventions and industrial
logistics development. Contribute to policy platforms and review relevant
legislation (e.g. Infrastructure Bill). Monitoring and Evaluation: Report on
project status and milestones, and recommend corrective actions. Measure
impact of policy interventions and ensure alignment with sub-directorate
outcomes. Sub-Directorate Management: Manage human and financial
resources of the unit. Collate inputs into quarterly and annual reports and
business plans. Monitor financial and operational risk reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
POST 41/153 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MARKET ACCESS REF NO: TRADE - 073
Overview: To develop, negotiate and implement programs, policies including
international trade agreements to facilitate Market Access in trade in goods.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA in Trade, Business Law,
International Political Economy, Economics, Sustainable Development,
Business Development and Analytics or related field. 3–5 years’ relevant
managerial experience in an international trade environment. Key
Requirements: Demonstrated experience in market access trade in goods
negotiations; including WTO, SADC, AFCFTA, Tripartite, bilateral and
plurilateral processes. Knowledge of tariffs, technical barriers to trade, non-
tariff barriers, rules of origin, and international trade. Strong analytical, research
and problem-solving skills with ability to produce sound policy advice in the
area of technical barriers to trade, non-tariff barriers and rules of origin.
Experience in project management, risk management, and
monitoring/evaluation of programmes. Proven stakeholder management and
negotiation skills with government, private sector, parastatals, labour, quality
infrastructure institutions and international bodies. Excellent report writing,
communication (written and verbal), and presentation skills. Computer literacy
(MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Negotiations: Contribute to development and execution of trade in goods:
market access negotiation programmes. Manage technical work, draft reports,
and provide analysis, advice, and inputs on agreements and negotiations in
particular on technical barriers to trade, not-tariff barriers and rules of origin.
Research and Analysis: Conduct research and analysis to support policy-
making and negotiations. Provide analytical inputs, risk assessments, and
technical notes for senior management and stakeholders. Project
Management: Support and manage project portfolio for market access
negotiations mandate. Plan, monitor and evaluate projects, addressing risks
and challenges. Stakeholder Management: Coordinate stakeholder
consultations and build partnerships with local and international stakeholders.
Maintain databases and improve awareness of market access issues. Sub-
Directorate Management: Contribute to management of the sub-directorate,
performance monitoring, risk management, and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela 012 394 1809
109
POST 41/154 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW AND POLICY REF
NO: CCRB – A011
(12-Months Contract)
Overview: The successful candidate will lead and manage the development,
review, and implementation of intellectual property (IP) policy, legislation, and
regulations, and contribute to both domestic and international legal and policy
processes concerning IP.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA in Law, Politics,
Economics or related field. 3–5 years’ relevant managerial experience in a Law,
Politics, or Economics environment. Key Requirements: Experience in
developing policies and legislation in a regulatory environment. In-depth
knowledge of intellectual property legislation and related regulatory
frameworks. Strong analytical, research and planning skills and experience.
Strong stakeholder engagement and problem-solving experience and skills.
Understanding of PFMA, Public Service Act and Regulations, Treasury
Regulations. Understanding of the Industrial Development policies as well as
the government’s broader economic policies. Ability to manage research,
conduct analysis and monitoring and evaluation of project. Strong leadership,
communication (verbal and written), and problem-solving skills. Excellent
Computer Literacy (MS Office packages).
DUTIES : Develop and Review Intellectual Property Legislation and Policies. Develop,
implement, and provide legal inputs into intellectual property (IP) legislation,
regulations, and policies. Facilitate public consultations on policy and
legislative drafts. Coordinate the legislative drafting process, including
Parliamentary submissions and presentations. Provide inputs into the strategic
policy direction and conduct legal research on IP matters. Facilitate the
Parliamentary process of introducing a bill in Parliament. Conduct Research
and Draft Position Papers: Prepare and present research and position papers
on domestic and international IP policy developments. Facilitate the
development of terms of reference for consultants. Compile and consolidate
departmental positions on related legislative proposals. Participate in
international treaty negotiations and domestic engagements (e.g., WIPO,
WTO, AfCFTA). Stakeholder Engagement and Public Awareness: Engage
stakeholders on proposed IP legislation and policies. Draft briefing notes and
conduct awareness workshops and public consultations. Respond to
stakeholder inquiries and facilitate the processing of Merchandise Marks Act
applications. Liaise with internal and external legal drafters and provide
legislative support. Sub-directorate and Resource Management: Manage
human, financial, and physical resources of the sub-directorate. Contribute to
the development and execution of operational and strategic plans. Monitor the
budget and ensure compliance with relevant legal frameworks. Support
planning, monitoring, and reporting processes of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
110
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post. All shortlisted
candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics will be communicated
to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended candidates will also be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/155 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUDGETING AND COMPLIANCE REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2025/21
Branch: Office of The Financial Officer
Chief Directorate: Budgeting And Compliance
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate NQF level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Finance
/ Accounting with 5 years’ experience in senior management level in finance.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Regulatory knowledge of all
legislation and national policies, regulations, frameworks and guidelines
applicable to Management Accounting (Planning and Budgeting. Framework.
Communication; Financial Management; Strategic Capability & leadership;
People Management & Empowerment; Project/Programme Management;
Training.
DUTIES : Manage budget performance, manage the provisioning of financial
performance, manage state of expenditure; Manage the provision of
111
management accounting services, manage the department budget, manage
financial systems, conduct financial analysis and quality control; Manage
internal control, compliance and monitor and manage conditional grants
expenditure and compliance, monitor compliance with regards to transport
related prescripts and internal governance process, support the system of
internal control and manage losses, manage and report on conditional grants
expenditure and compliance; Manage the resources of the Chief Directorate,
provide guidance and adequate support for a development of the staff of the
Chief Directorate, establish and maintain governance and administrative
system’s continuity within the work of the Chief Directorate, prepare and submit
implementation plans, authorise expenditure, monitor quality control of work,
ensure the compilation of the annual report, annual plan and strategic plan of
the Chief Directorate, ensure accurate compilation of quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Matlala Tel No: (012) 309 3000
POST 41/156 : DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATION REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/22
Branch: Office of The Director-General
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Accounting
/Auditing / Law / Risk Management with a minimum of 5 year’s working
experience at a middle/senior management level in forensic/fraud auditing
environment. A certificate and membership of Association of Certified Fraud
Examiner would be an added advantage Knowledge and skills: Compilation of
management reports, PFMA and Treasury Regulations, Prevention and
Combating of Corrupt Activities Act (PRACCA), Prevention of Organized
Crimes Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Public Service Regulations, Protection of
Access to Information Act (PAIA) Public Service Anti-Corruption strategy and
Minimum Anti-Corruption Capacity Requirements (MACC) Communication;
Financial Management; Strategic capability & leadership; people management
and empowerment.
DUTIES : Manage all aspects of the departmental investigations and forensics;
investigate the financial operations of the department, collect and analyses
financial data, investigate cases of loss, fraud or employee theft and
professional negligence, prepare information for use in criminal or civil court
cases; Create and foster an anti-fraud and anti-corruption culture/environment,
asset fraud in the department, promote Fraud Awareness, Education and
Training, develop ethic policy. Manage the co-ordination and/or conducting of
reactive investigations, report cases to SAPS as required by PRECCA in
consultation with CFO and DG, recover Departmental losses occasioned by
gross negligence, fraud and/or corruption in consultation with Legal Services
and State Attorney, participate in quasi-judicial proceeding in consultation with
Human Resources, Manage the resource of the Directorate, develop
operational standards and ensure the attainability and sustainability, monitor
and ensure effective and efficient co-ordination of activities, ensure proper
utilization of the budget by monitoring and reporting expenditure, manage and
implement service delivery by measuring performance, ensure individual
performance is aligned to the strategic objectives of the unit, evaluate and
monitor performance and appraisal of employee, compile monthly, quarterly
and annual report. Plan, organize and control activities pertaining to the
component, compile, maintain and monitor the sub-directorate’s strategic,
annual performance plan / operational plans. Manage the assets of the
directorate. Ensure capacity development of staff. Provide guidance to staff.
Manage the work quality and performance of staff. Provide input into the
strategic and annual reports of the Directorate. Maintain good stakeholder
relationship with all relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mnqwazi Tel No: (012) 309 3220
112
ANNEXURE S
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.’’
OTHER POST
POST 41/157 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK AND INTERNAL AUDIT: PONGOLA-
UMZIMKULU CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT AGENCY REF NO: PUCMA 06
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who had previously applied, need to re-
apply
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Degree/Higher/Advanced Diploma in Internal audit/Risk
management/Accounting or equivalent (NQF Level 7) or equivalent
qualification. Registration as a Certified Internal Auditor / Compliance Auditor /
Performance Auditor / Forensic Investigations and Quality Assurance auditor /
General Control Review and Applications Control/Chartered accounted would
be added advantage. Five (5) years supervisory / management experience
(ASD level) in internal audit / compliance audits / performance audits/ forensic
investigations and quality assurance audits / general control review and
applications control; or Certification in Control Self-Assessment (CCSA),
Certified Government Auditing Professional (CGAP). Knowledge and
understanding on Human Resource Management Legislation, policies,
practices and procedures. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and guidelines. Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and anti-
corruption and fraud prevention measures. Knowledge of equal opportunities
and Affirmative action guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and
clerical procedures and systems. Principles and practice of financial
accounting. Framework for managing performance information. Business
strategy transaction and alignment. Problem solving and Analysis. People and
113
Diversity Management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
Communication. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the following: Compliance Audits / Performance Audits/ Forensic
Investigations and Quality Assurance Audits / General Control Review and
Applications Control. Participate in the coordination with other internal and
external service providers of assurance to ensure proper coverage. Manage
strategic, operational and functional risk processes by designing and
implementing an overall risk management process for the entity, which includes
an analysis of the financial impact on the company when risks occur.
Performing an Enterprise Risk Assessment by analysing current risks and
identifying potential risks that are affecting the company. Assist in developing
risk mitigation strategies for the organisation’s critical risks and monitoring
these risks. Conduct on-site inspections of properties and facilities to identify
hazards and risk exposures. Prepare technical and comprehensive reports,
plans and procedures for developing audit and risk management programs,
reviews and inspections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Zakhele Buthelezi at (079) 694 6787
114
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Infrastructure Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is
intended to promote representivity through the filling of these posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below position, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. Only online applications will be considered and for
general enquiries please contact Human Resource on 076 521 4118.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants must complete the online Z83 and attach a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV). All other documents are submitted by shortlisted
candidates). Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified
copies of qualifications not older than six (06) months, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job). It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in
the Public Service through the filling of this post and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful. In line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, People
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 41/158 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: REFS/023916
Directorate: Property Management Area one
SALARY : R761 157 - R1 144 008 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes the state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested from the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification. A minimum of 3 years
post qualification Quantity Surveyor experience required. Must be registered
with SACQSP as a Professional Quantity Surveyor. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service Act of 1994. Knowledge Public
Service Regulations, 2016.PFMA and Treasury Regulations,
Provincial/Departmental SCM policies. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations.
Health Act, Regulations and Guidelines-Skills- Decision making, Team
leadership, Analytical, Creativity, Self-management, financial management,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer literacy,
Conflict management, Problem solving, Research, Technical report writing,
Networking.
DUTIES : Coordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity survey.
Ensure adherence to quantity determination standards. Provide quantity
survey advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure the
adoption of technical and quality strategies. Develop quantity surveying related
policies, methods and practices. Provide solutions on non-compliance on
quantity determination. Review the cost determinations of projects and
estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub professional
personnel. Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity surveying and related
technical and administrative personnel to promote skill/knowledge transfer and
adherence to sound principles and code of practice. Supervise quantity survey
work and processes. Administer performance management and development.
115
Prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization.
Undertake continuous professional development according to council
guidelines. Conduct research/literature studies on quantity survey to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on quantity surveying related
matters. Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement
SCM and personnel human resource administration. Monitor and control
expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Undertake
continuous professional development according to council guidelines. Conduct
research/literature studies on quantity survey to improve expertise. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on quantity surveying related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/076 521 4118
116
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Department of health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representativity in all occupational categories in the Department.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application quoting the relevant reference number to: The Chief
Executive Officer, Ceza Hospital, Private Bag X200, Ceza, 3866. Hand
delivered or couriered applications may be submitted to Chibini Main Road,
Human Resource Section, Ceza Hospital, before 16h00 on or before the
closing date or email to sandile.mazibuko@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr E.S. Mazibuko: Human Resource Officer (Supervisor)
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on prescribed Application for Employment
form (Z83) obtainable from any Public Service Department or the website
www.kznhealth.gov.za which must be originally signed and dated. The
application must include only completed and signed new form Z83 obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity document, Senior
Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as the driver’s licence
where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or
before the day of the interview date. The Department reserves the right not to
fill the post after advertisement. The appointments are subject to positive
outcomes obtained for the Pre-Employment checks which will be conducted by
the Department for the following i.e. Security Clearance/vetting, Security
clearance for criminal records, credit records, (Financial, assets records etc),
validation of identity document, driver’s license, professional driving permit
(where required), Citizenship/permanent residency, Company Intellectual
Property Commission (CIPC)-Business Interests, verification of Educational
qualifications by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), verification
of employment history/reference checks-previous experience from employers.
Applicants are respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Shortlisted candidates will not be compensated for
Subsistence and Travelling claims (S&T).
OTHER POST
POST 41/159 : MEDICAL MANAGER REF NO: CTH 04/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 422 810 per annum, (inclusive package), Plus Rural Allowance (22%),
Commuted Overtime.
CENTRE : Ceza-Thulasizwe District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate or Grade 12, MBCHB Degree, Current registration certificate
with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner, a minimum of 4 years’ experience after
registration with HPCSA as an independent Medical Practitioner. Only
shortlisted candidates will submit proof of registration/foreign
qualification/current and previous working experience. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competencies Required: Knowledge of current health and public
service legislation and policies, Broad clinical knowledge, competency and
skills in general clinical domains such as medicine, paediatrics and child heath,
obstetrics and gynaecology and surgery, knowledge of strategic documents,
e.g. Sustainable developmental goals, national developmental plan APP,
DHER, etc, Knowledge and an experience in District Health System,
knowledge of Heath ethics, Knowledge of Health Information System, Decision
making skills, Good communication, leadership, team building, motivation and
computer skills, Good supervisory planning and organisation skills, Knowledge
of Employee Performance Management Development System (EPMDS).
DUTIES : Manage the provision of safe, ethical and high quality medical and allied health
care at Ceza-Thulasizwe Hospital associated with PHC facilities, Provide
support and supervision to all Medical and Allied Health staff (including
pharmacy, radiology, rehabilitation, social services, dental services dietetics
and optometry), Actively participate in the institutional strategic and operational
planning and monitoring and evaluation processes, Manage facilitate the
formulation of Medical and Allied Health service policies and procedures and
ensure that these are in line with the current statutory guidelines, regulations
and code of ethics, Ensure the provision and development of protocols and
117
guidelines to Medical and Allied Health personnel by Strengthening clinical
governance in the institution and ensuring cost effective and efficient use of
resources including human and financial and monitoring and control of blood
products and laboratory investigations. Plan, manage and control resources
allocated to Medical and Allied Health, Manage the performance of Medical
and Allied Health staff. Ensure regular skills audits an ensure staff development
and training. Maintain discipline and deal with grievance and Labour related
issues in Terms of laid down procedures in Medical and Allied Health sections.
Assist with Information management analysis. Ensure accurate records are
maintained for all health records in accordance with legal and statutory
regulations for the continuity of care. Monitor and control overtime in medical
and allied health sections. Ensure HR policies and regulations are
implemented. Assist with pro-active recruitment of medical and allied health
professionals. Conduct clinical records audits, mortality and morbidity and
perinatal mortality reviews, Conduct service assessment and ensure that
medical and allied health sections participate in quality improvement projects
surveys to improve clinical quality and patient satisfaction, Assist with analysing
Adverse Events, Ensure compliance with National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital and Clinical Realization Model, Provide leadership to clinical risks,
Deal with medico-legal issues e.g. reports, clinical privileges and risk
management, Full participation in management, financial and human
resources committees of the institution, Develop Integrated Primary Health
Care Service in Ceza Sub District, Be a member of management meetings e.g.
Executive Management Committee (EXCO), Extended Management, Clinic
and Hospital Cash flow meetings, Institutional Health Technology, Quality
assurance, infection prevention and Control, Health and Safety and Disaster
Management, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Dr SNP Ntuli (Acting Chief Executive Officer) Tel No: (035) 832 5001
118
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : The applications should be submitted on the website: www.ldoh.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are hereby invited from suitable qualified candidates for 3-Year
Contract Grant Funded posts. NB: Ensure that you read the conditions and
requirements of the post before you apply. Failure to comply with the
instructions below, will result in your application to be disqualified. By applying,
it is understood that you agree to the conditions and requirements of the post.
Applications should include a fully completed new Z83 form obtainable from
any government institution or at www.dpsa.gov.za and must be accompanied
by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae [CV]. The new Z83 form must be fully
completed and signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part
C and Part D must be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in
full except the following: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers. If an applicant responded “No” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private company
conducting business with the State? then it is acceptable for an applicant to
indicate ‘not applicable’ or leave blank to the question. If yes (provide detail),
“In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interest?”. Applicants may leave the following
question blank if they are not in possession of such: “If your profession or
occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants
often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV)” or “see attached”, this is
acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application for
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The questions related to conditions that prevent
reappointment under Part F must be answered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation. Shortlisted candidates will be required to come for an
interview, at which time, certified copies of all relevant qualifications, current
registration with the relevant statutory body and copy of ID must be submitted.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
shall be a practical exercise and the other shall be an Integrity [Ethical
Conduct], an Assessment as per Directive on Human Resource Management
and Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024. Shortlisted candidates for the SMS post will be required to submit SMS
pre-entry certificate obtainable from National School of Government
[https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.] on the date
of interview. The successful candidate will be subjected to security clearance
[Vetting] as per the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024. The Department of Health is an equal opportunity Employment Equity
and Affirmative Action Employer. Females are encouraged to apply for posts at
Senior Management in order to address the Employment Equity targets within
the Department. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates only.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the large
number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard from
us within ninety (90) days of the closing date, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any
dissatisfaction, applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request
reasons from the Department for any administrative action which has adversely
affected them in terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act 3 of 2000. Applicants responding to this circular should quote on
the Z83 form, the circular number or post number as the reference number.
Kindly note that no payment of any kind is required when applying for posts
advertised in this circular. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts. The employment decision shall be informed by the
119
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. NB 1: Note: The circular of
advertised vacant posts will be posted on the following websites:
www.ldoh.gov.za, and www.dpsa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/160 : HEALTH INFORMATION OFFICER (X1 POST)
3-Year Contract Grant Funded
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mokopane Malaria Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification and Competencies. An appropriate National Diploma in
Information Science/ Information Management/ Data Analytics/ Biostatistics/
Epidemiology or similar qualification in Data Science. Proven track record in
preparation, analysis and interpretation, utilization of data and management of
information. Prepared to work under pressure to meet deadlines. Minimum of
three (3) years’ experience in Information Management or data analytics.
Inherent requirements of the job: database system management e.g. MS
Access; STATA etc. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
including MS Outlook Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms
literacy A valid driver's license, except for people with disabilities. Knowledge
and Skills. Knowledge of information management, data management.
Manipulating and converting data into meaningful information. Monitoring &
Evaluation knowledge and competency. Preparation and graphic presentation
of information. Compilation of management report, technical and non-technical
report writing. Well-developed communication skills. Knowledge of statistical
tools. Knowledge of DHIS and inter phasing of sub-programme systems.
Knowledge of general information and relevant policies.
DUTIES : Implement district management information system, policies, regulations,
standard & norms, best practices & procedures. Maintain and improve data
quality standards. Coordinate District Health Care Services Information reports
and reporting. Co-ordinate the use of information in the district. Co-ordinate the
implementation of the promotion of access of information. Develop and
maintain district information databases. Assimilation and synthesis of health
information from relevant health information management systems and
databases. Maintain and co-ordinate updates to Provincial Office. Prepare
monthly, quarterly annual reports and ad hoc reports upon request. Identify and
co-ordinate training staff as identified.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms
Netshimbupfe LD, Makhuthudise MR & Maluleke P Tel No: (015) 307 3736/7
during office hours.
POST 41/161 : TEAM LEADER (X13 POSTS)
3-Year Contract Grant Funded
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Mopani District:
Maphutha Malatji Hospital (X1 Post), Makhushane Clinic (X1 Post), Makhuva
Clinic (X1 Post), Carlota Clinic (X1 Post), Dzumeri CHC (X1 Post) Thomo Clinic
(X1 Post)
Vhembe District:
Tshiombo Clinic (X1 Post), Malamulele Clinic (X1 Post), Mutale CHC (X1 Post),
Makuya Clinic (X1 Post), Mhinga CHC (X1 Post), Tiyani Clinic (X1 Post),
Tshikuwi Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies. Diploma / Bachelor’s degree in
Environmental Health, Biological sciences or Environmental Science at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Experience in disease control or related field.
Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook
Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. A valid driver’s
license Code C with PDP [Professional Driver’s Permit] [copy submitted only
when shortlisted]. Demonstratable driving skills. Knowledge and skills. Basic
understanding of Malaria Signs and Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment.
Strong Administration and communication skills. Good data collection and
collation skills. Good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Monitor indoor residual spraying & manage spray teams. Implement vector
control and Indoor Residual Spray. Monitor mixing and application of
Insecticide. Ensure availability of Hut card. Compile SP forms. Supervise and
120
training of staff. Monitor adherence to OHS. Maintenance of facilities and
vehicles. Convey personnel & equipment to working area. Maintain Record of
insecticides used and individual spraying activities. Liaise with community
leaders and institutions on malaria control activities. Investigate all reported
cases of malaria. Perform entomological surveillance work. Mobilize the
community through door-to-door outreach, including community structures and
schools to encourage malaria testing at mobile clinics. Conduct community
mobilization and sensitization programmes to ensure maximum participation of
communities. Collect and collate / compile monthly, quarterly as required by
supervisor for vector control. Surveillance Health promotion and entomological.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms
Netshimbupfe LD, Makhuthudise MR & Maluleke P Tel No: (015) 307 3736/7
during office hours.
POST 41/162 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DATA MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
3-Year Contract Grant Funded
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn: Ratshaatsha CHC
Waterberg: Witpoort Hospital (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: Naboomkopies Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies. An appropriate National Diploma in
Information Science/ Information Management/ Data Analytics/ Biostatistics/
Epidemiology or similar qualification in Data Science. Inherent requirements of
the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook Word, Excel and PowerPoint;
Virtual meeting platforms literacy and Access. A valid driver's license, except
for people with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills. Competencies in Information
Management. Understanding the Ditcom process. Knowledge of departmental
systems, i.e. Health Information Systems. Basic office planning, organizational
and archiving skills. Possess excellent interpersonal skills to effectively deal
with stakeholders in a highly professional manner. Time management.
DUTIES : Data Collection, Collation, Capturing & Reporting. Perform administrative role
as a member of the Information Management team. File records/ report
preparation. Assist with data management and quality monitoring. Interpret and
analyse data trends. Participate in health information co-ordinating activities.
Maintain data retrieval efficiency.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms
Netshimbupfe LD, Makhuthudise MR & Maluleke P Tel No: (015) 307 3736/7
during office hours.
POST 41/163 : FOREMAN (X30 POSTS)
3-Year Contract Grant Funded
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Makhushane Clinic (X1 Post) Willows Clinic (X1 Post),
Sekororo Hospital (X1 Post), CN Phatudi Hospital (X1 Post), Nwamitwa Clinic
(X2 Posts), Nwamitwa Clinic: Tzaneen Farms (X1 Post), Ngove Clinic (X1
Post), Mapayeni Clinic (X1 Post), Nkomo Clinic (X1 Post), Makhuvha Clinic (X1
Post), Dzumeri CHC (X1 Post), Matswi Clinic (X1 Post), Bellevue Clinic (X1
Post)
Vhembe District: Malamulele Clinic (X1 Post), Shirindi Clinic (X1 Post), Xigalo
Clinic [(X1 Post), Nthlaveni C Clinic (X1 Post), Tshimbupfe Clinic (X1 Post),
Tshikuwi Clinic (X1 Post), Masisi Clinic (X1 Post), Klein Tshipise Clinic (X1
Post), Tshipise Malaria Station (X1 Post), Sterkstroom Clinic (X1 Post),
Thohoyandou CHC (X1 Post), Tshaulu Clinic (X1 Post), Tshiombo Clinic (X1
Post)
Capricorn: Ratshaatsha CHC (X1 Post)
Waterberg: Witpoort Hospital (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: Naboomkopies Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies. National Diploma/ Bachelor’s degree in
Environmental Health, Biological Sciences and Environmental Science, Health
Science/ Biomedical Sciences/ Medical Sciences/ at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Competencies in malaria and other diseases control.
Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy including MS Outlook
Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms literacy. A valid driver’s
license Code C with PDP [Professional Driver’s Permit]. Knowledge and Skills.
Basic understanding of Malaria Signs and Symptoms, Prevention and
121
Treatment. Strong Administration and communication skills. Good report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Conduct vector control activities including indoor residual spraying and larval
source management. Mixing insecticides. Loading and offloading of goods.
Moving of client’s property in the house and covering of furniture before
spraying. Investigation of malaria and other diseases cases. Cleaning
functions at Department of Health facilities (vehicles, cans, buildings &
surroundings). Collection and capturing data during disease control operations.
Conduct Environnemental surveillance and Community surveillance of
diseases. Conduct malaria surveillance & reporting thereof. Mobilize the
community through door-to-door outreach, including community structures and
schools to encourage malaria testing at mobile clinics. Conduct community
mobilization and sensitization programmes to ensure maximum participation of
communities. Collect and collate / compile monthly, quarterly or and reports
and data required information relating to the Programme.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms
Netshimbupfe LD, Makhuthudise MR & Maluleke P Tel No: (015) 307 3736/7
during office hours.
POST 41/164 : ENTOMOLOGY ASSISTANTS (X3 POSTS)
3-Year Contract Grant Funded
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Waterberg: Witpoort Hospital (X1 Post)
Capricorn: Ratshaatsha CHC (X1 Posts)
Sekhukhune: Naboomkopies Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: National Diploma/ Bachelor’s degree in
Environmental Health, Biological Sciences and Environmental Science, Health
Science/ Biomedical Sciences/ Medical Sciences/ at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
including MS Outlook Word, Excel and PowerPoint; Virtual meeting platforms
literacy. A valid driver's license, except for people with disabilities. Knowledge
and Skills. Ability to work with laboratory animals. Basic knowledge of Malaria
epidemiology. Basic knowledge of laboratory procedures. Ability to conduct
indoor residual spraying & larvaeciding.
DUTIES : Perform basic laboratory tasks e.g. preparation of reagents, running of
molecular biology tests. Cleaning and washing of glassware and equipment.
Maintenance of mosquito colonies. Preparation and packaging of mosquito
specimens. Conduct bio-assays. Conduct field collections of mosquitoes &
larvae. Monitor indoor residual spraying & manage spray teams. Conduct
malaria surveillance & reporting thereof. Investigation of malaria and other
disease cases. Mobilize the community through door-to-door outreach,
including community structures and schools to encourage malaria testing at
mobile clinics. Conduct community mobilization and sensitization programmes
to ensure maximum participation of communities. Collect and collate / compile
monthly, quarterly or and reports and data required information relating to the
Programme. Monitor indoor residual spraying & manage spray teams.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Ms
Netshimbupfe LD, Makhuthudise MR & Maluleke P Tel No: (015) 307 3736/7
during office hours.
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : caa@treasury.limpopo.gov.za. Alternatively, applications may be sent by post
to: The Head of Department, Limpopo Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X9486,
Polokwane, 0700 OR hand delivered at Ismini Towers, Office No. G002
(Ground Floor) Registry, 46 Hans van Rensburg Street, Polokwane, 0699.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025, at 16H00.
NOTE : The Member of the Executive Council for Limpopo Provincial Treasury hereby
invites applications for candidates to be considered for appointment to the
Limpopo Provincial Treasury Chartered Accountancy Academy in the Public
Sector (2026 intake). Limpopo Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity and
affirmative action employer and is committed to the promotion of equity in terms
of the race, gender and disability through filling of post(s) with candidates
122
whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representativity in line
with numerical targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. If you
believe you meet the requirements and have the aspiration to succeed, please
complete in full and send the new Z83 Form and the TE008 (CAA Selection
Form) available on www.limtreasury.gov.za, Only Z83 and CV are submitted on
application all other documents are submitted by shortlisted candidates). Note:
This is an equal opportunity appointment available for applicants / graduates
from Limpopo or with links to Limpopo. Provincial Treasury reserves the right
to not fill all or some of the positions.
OTHER POST
POST 41/165 : CHARTERED ACCOUNTANCY TRAINEE (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Financial Governance
Three years with effect from 1st February 2026 to 31st January 2029 (36
months)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of CTA or the equivalent post-graduate
qualification that is not older than 2 years or studying towards completing CTA
or equivalent postgraduate qualification that will enable them to write SAICA’s
Assessment of Initial Competence in January 2026. Candidates should not be
in an approved training contract with another training office.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will have access to diverse practical financial
management, decision making and control experience and an opportunity to
apply their knowledge in wide ranging financial reporting frameworks,
Companies Act, Public Finance Management Act and Regulations with
targeted exposure to multiple industry sectors in which our entities operate.
Limpopo Treasury is the provincial allocator of financial resources to
departments and entities. The wide variety of sectoral focus by departments
and entities that Limpopo Treasury supports, and monitors makes for a
challenging and fulfilling training environment for prospective trainee Chartered
Accountants in the Public Sector.
ENQUIRIES : Messrs. Kenneth Ugoda at (079) 893 8115) and Shepard Matsebe CA(SA) at
(079) 744 1961
123
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR Sections as well as
considering the cost for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are advertised within the
Department professional registration will be required from various statutory
councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be considered.
Applicants must ensure that they fully complete and sign form Z 83, even if
they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the
Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note: The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/166 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GR1 (PN-A5) REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/662
Three (3) Year Contract
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Regional Training Centre, Evander (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of seven (7) years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Knowledge of skills
development and training legislations. Knowledge in Primary Health Care
Programs including HIV and AIDS STI and TB Learning programmers.
Knowledge and Experience of working with SETA s. Knowledge on application
of SAQA and NQF principles in PHC programs. Including HAST programs.
Understanding financial management as per Departmental Prescripts
Excellent communication skills. Experience in management. Advanced
computer literacy MS Word Excel and Presentation skills. Good planning and
organizational skills. Knowledge of the PFMA Labour Relations and other
relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal problem – solving and dispute
resolution communication analytical and writing skills. Knowledge of the Public
124
Service Regulations 2001 Public Service Act 1994 Employment Equity Act 55
of 1998 Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other related prescripts of the
Department of Health. Compulsory Driver’s License. Ability/willingness for
frequent travel.
DUTIES : To provide support in implementation of Administration, Training and
Coordinating of all programs at Regional Training Centre (RTC). To coordinate
and conduct training implementation at RTC. To monitor and evaluate training
programmes at RTC. To assist in strengthening relationships with all District
key stakeholders including institutions of higher learning. To assist in
strengthening reporting system at RTC.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 41/167 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/663
Three (3) Year Contract
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Regional Training Centre, Evander (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration / Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of
three (3) years' relevant experience of which three (3) years’ experience must
be at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8) within Health Environment.
Knowledge of Human Resources and Administrative support services. Sound
financial management facility management and supervision. Valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to work extra hours and be on standby when need arises.
Advanced computer literacy MS Word Excel. Good written and communication
skills. Good planning and organizational skills. Knowledge of the PFMA Labour
Relations and other relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal problem – solving
and dispute resolution communication analytical and writing skills. Ability to
work under pressure with minimum supervision. Ability to conduct seminars or
workshops and presentation of budget. Strong leadership managerial
organizational strategic operational and contingency planning skills.
Independent decision-making problem solving and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations 2001 Public Service Act 1994
Employment Equity Act 55 of 1998 Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other
related prescripts of the Department of Health.
DUTIES : To provide support in implementation of Administration at Regional Training
Centre (RTC). To ensure efficient management of Human and material
resource management. To monitor housekeeping and maintenance at RTC. To
ensure efficient financial management. To manage administration services at
RTC.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 41/168 : EMS STATION MANAGER GRADE 3-6 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/664
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : Grade 3: R397 308 - R454 278 per annum
Grade 4: R480 108 - R548 625 per annum
Grade 5: R562 119 - R607 260 per annum
Grade 6: R624 288 - R700 821 per annum
CENTRE : EMS Ermelo Station (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Ambulance
Emergency Assistant / Emergency Care Technician Qualification / Critical Care
Assistant Certificate / National Diploma in Emergency Medical Care / Bachelor
of Technology in Emergency Medical Care. Minimum of three (3) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA (2025) as ANT / ECT / Paramedic
/ ECP. Valid code C1 driver’s license with an unendorsed PDP. Diploma in
Management or above will be an added advantage. Knowledge and skills:
Previous supervisory experience or qualification. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Policy and Financial Management. Be able to work under pressure and
excessive hours. Be prepared to travel and attend to emergencies after hours.
125
Knowledge of Labour Relations. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : General office administration. Human Resource Management. Be responsible
of all EMS activities in the Station. Provide advice on procedures and policy
matters to staff and ensure compliance with all policies operating in the service.
Ensure that fleet management is properly implemented to provide for the
maintenance and repairs of vehicles in accordance with Transport Policy.
Ensure the control and have an inventory of all resources at the Station. Be
responsible for EMS occupational health and safety at the Station. Respond to
all major incidents to assist and co-ordinate such incidents within the
operational area. Including rescue responses and outstanding calls when
necessary and attend debrief meetings. Investigate service complaints
received from internal and external resources and report on these complaints
to the District Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 41/169 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/NO/25/665
Three (3) Year Contract
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Regional Training Centre, Evander (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in administrative
functions or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations 2001 Public Service Act 1994 Employment Equity Act 55 of 1998
Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other related prescripts of the Department
of Health. Compulsory Driver’s License. Ability/willingness for frequent travel.
Apply technical/ professional skills, accept responsibility, work independently
and produce good quality of work; must be a team player; flexible, reliable;
initiative; innovative; have good verbal and written communication; must have
good interpersonal execution); good relations; ability to manage projects
(planning and leadership skills; ability to manage/control financial resources;
monitor financial expenditure and supervise staff. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To provide admin support services to the institution. To coordinate office
activities, handle phone calls, emails and correspondence, responding to
queries. Preparing reports, presentations and submissions. To update
databases and systems with new information. To order office supplies, manage
inventory and track expenses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 41/170 : TRAINING OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/667 (X2 POSTS)
Three (3) Year Contract
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Regional Training Centre, Evander (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus a three-year Diploma / Degree in HR, HRD,
Public Management / Affairs or equivalent (NQF level 6/7) as recognized by
SAQA. A two-year post qualification experience in training facilitation. Valid
driver’s licence. A short course in a Train the Trainer / Facilitators or relevant
HRD programme will be an added advantage. Skills: Demonstrable training,
facilitation & presentation skills. Good interpersonal relations, Communication
skills, Working knowledge of the Public Service Act, PFMA, Skills Development
Act, Employment Equity Act and other relevant prescripts. Computer literacy
(Power Point and Ms Word).
DUTIES : To provide support in implementation of administration and training services at
Regional Training Centre (RTC). To conduct training. To prepare training
venues. To compile training reports and capture training forms. To monitor
training attendance registers. Liaise with supervisor and Senior Manager for
training. Consult training beneficiaries/ employees to attend training. Submit
approved RTC training plan. Compile monthly and quarterly reports.
126
Coordinate skills development programmes. Facilitate Compulsory Induction
Programme. Conduct Training needs Assessment and Skills Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 41/171 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: NTSG REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/668
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Finance or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA. The position
requires a person who has organizational and administration skills as well as
the ability to arrange and systematize information. A sound knowledge of
Computer applications, including MS Excel, MS Word and Outlook is required.
A valid driver’s licence, Knowledge of PFMA and Treasury regulation.
Knowledge of government financial system (Logis and BAS).
DUTIES : Consolidate budget inputs. Compile and consolidate business plan. Itemise
budget accordingly. Prepare budget pressures and inputs. Compile
expenditure reports. Compile and capture journals. Monitor NTSG & Oncology,
SHRTG grant accounts. Compile budget adjustment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
127
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 41/172 : DIRECTOR LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: NCDOH 130/2025 (X1 POST)
Job Purpose: The purpose of the Directorate is to ensure that a professional,
credible, accessible and quality assured legal services is rendered to the
department, ministry and stakeholders.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in LLB (NQF7) or relevant Legal Qualification with 5 (five)
years’ experience in Middle / Senior Managerial Level in the Public Service.
Admitted as Advocate or Attorney. Valid driver’s licence, Successful completion
of the SMS pre-entry certificate as offered by the National School of
Government (NSG). Competency Profile: Knowledge of the South African legal
system, legal practices and spheres. Legislative drafting skills (drafting of all
types of legal agreements) Negotiation skills. Experience in providing litigation
support in court cases for and against the Department. Compliance
management skills. Computer literacy, Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Project management skills. Strategic capability and leadership.
Innovative and analytical thinking skills. Planning and organizing skills.
Knowledge of and experience in financial management. Problem-solving skills.
People management skills.
DUTIES : Advising the head of department and the member of the executive council on
exercising their statutory responsibility in order to avoid and minimize legal
risks, reputational risks and medico legal exposure of the department.
Reviewing existing legislation, identifying shortcomings and drafting and
implementing new legislation. Effectively managing litigation and litigation
support in cases for and against the department. Effective management of
internal and external legislation. Provide legal training and building capacity of
the department’s personnel to understand and engage with legal matters, such
128
as contracts and service level agreements. Compile quarterly and annual legal
reports outlining the department’s performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LV Moleleki Tel No: (053) 830 0601
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/173 : DIRECTOR MATERNAL, YOUTH, CHILD, ADOLESCENT, WOMEN AND
MEN’S HEALTH REF NO: NCDOH 131/2025 (X1 POST)
Job Purpose: To provide overall leadership, strategic guidance and technical
support to ensure provision of quality care of mother’s, babies and children
under 5 (five) years, SRHR, youth and adolescents and nutrition towards
reduction morbidity and mortality.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Health Sciences Degree (NQF7) in Health Science or Social Science with
Health Sciences as a primary qualification as recognized by SAQA. A Masters
Degree within Health Science will be an added advantage. Registration with
appropriate Profession Council. A qualification in Obstetrics and Gynaecology
or Paediatrics will be an added advantage. 5 (five) years’ experience in Middle
or Senior Managerial Level in a health associated environment with specific
emphasis on child and/or women’s health programmes. Experience in national,
policy development and implementation, strategic and operational planning.
Knowledge and experience in women’s maternal, new-born, child and
adolescent health as well as monitoring and evaluation, human resources and
financial management. Working knowledge of the health sector and
government strategies and processes, strategic management and project
management. Knowledge of other programmes that impact on Family health
particularly HIV/AIDS, TB and nutrition. Good communication (verbal and
written), leadership, analytical, problem solving, research, facilitation,
negotiation, advocacy and computer skills (MS Office package). A valid driver’s
licence. SMS pre-entry certificate is required for appointment finalization.
DUTIES : Oversee the reduction of maternal, neonatal and child mortality rates. Develop
and support implementation of plans to reduce maternal, new-born and child
mortality rates based on the recommendations from the ministerially appointed
Mortality Committees. Provide strategic direction and oversee the development
of relevant policies and guidelines aimed at improving the health and well-being
of women, adolescents and children. Facilitate the promotion of healthy
behaviours and demand for health services in families, communities, especially
in the areas that affect the health and wellbeing of mothers, women and
children. Monitor and report on progress towards achievement of global and
national commitments such as Sustainable Development Goal and National
Development Plan targets. Effective governance, compliance and risk
management. Monitor quality, risk standards practices against prescribed
framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZC Kiti Tel No: (053) 8300 500
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/174 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: UROLOGY REF NO: NCDOH
128/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Urology.
Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB). Current
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in the required discipline. Experience: A Minimum of 3
129
(three) years appropriate Experience as Medical Specialist after registration
with the HPCSA as a medical specialist in one of the following discipline:
Anaesthesiology. Competencies: Good communication skills (written and
verbal) well as computer literacy. Must have strong record of clinical expertise
and clinical governance, research and experience of training and teaching at
both under and post graduate levels. Strong people management skills,
analytical thinking, problem-solving, decision-making and ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team. Ability to deal with problems of a generalist nature.
DUTIES : To manage and supervise all Medical Doctors in the Unit. Ensure the provision
of effective clinical and HR and Financial governance (including but not limited
to protocol development, risk management, commuted overtime management
and cost containment). Ensure the provision of outreach services to the rest of
the province. To develop tertiary services and to assure provision of quality
clinical services to patients, as well as teaching and training of junior and senior
doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102 or Dr Saeed Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or email to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/175 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: SURGICAL SERVICES & ORTHOPAEDICS
NCDOH 129/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: 1 773 222 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for the registration with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine, Surgical Services and Family Medicine. Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine, Surgical Services and Family Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine,
Surgical Services and Family Medicine. Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in a recognised sub-Specialty. Registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in a recognised Sub-Specialty. Grade 2: Experience, a
minimum of 5 years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist. Grade 3: Experience, a minimum of 10 years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist.
DUTIES : To provide and develop Tertiary Services and to assure provision of quality
clinical services to patients, as well as teaching and training of junior doctors.
To ensure good clinical governance (including but not limited to protocol
development, risk management, commuted overtime management, and cost
containment), to provide outreach services to the rest of the province.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102 or Dr Saeed Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or email to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/176 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (PHC AND DISTRICT HOSPITALS) REF
NO: NCDOH 132/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (all – inclusive package)
CENTRE : Frances Baard Health District: Frances Baard District Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Health Sciences. An Accredited
Post-Graduate Diploma/Degree in Management. A Master’s Degree in Health
Sciences will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s licence. Computer
proficiency. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Skills Profile:
General Competencies: Strategic thinking. Problem-solving and analytical
skills. Planning and organising. Project Management. Presentation skills.
Effective time management. Conflict management. Professional ethics.
Listening skills. Interpersonal skills. Teamwork. Mentoring and coaching skills.
Report writing skills. Core competencies: Management and coordination of
130
services. Monitoring and evaluation of services. Community and stakeholder
liaison. Budget and financial management. Quality Improvement. Knowledge
of legislation and policies applicable to the public health sector.
DUTIES : Strategic Leadership: Ensure contribution to the development of a shared
vision and effective strategies to implement the District Health Plan as adapted
fora sub- district delivering quality service with reference to the PPTICRM
processes. Ensure the development and management of local communities
through the development of a good communication plan and effective referral
systems. Service Delivery: Respond to the burden of disease within the sub-
district by providing health care through and integrated clinical services
management approach (ICSM) including: Ward-based outreach teams
(WBOTs), o Integrated school health programme (ISHP). Ensure inter-sectoral
coordination and collaboration with other government sectors and stakeholders
within the district in order to address the upstream social determinants of
health. Ensure the development and implementation of an approved annual
operational plan in consultation with clinic supervisors, facilities and
stakeholders within the sub-district. Ensure an integrated functional referral
system. Ensure scheduled outreach and clinical support to attached PHC
services. Ensure the oversight of the establishment of a functional sub-district
health governance structure. Ensure oversight of the development and
dissemination of core values in collaboration with relevant structures within the
sub districts. Ensure effective oversight of all health facilities within a sub
district and manage decision making arrangements in the provision of primary
health care services indicated in the sub district package. Ensuring compliance
with all relevant legislation, policies and procedures for the provision of primary
health services within the sub-district as it relates to compliance with the norms
and standards of the primary health care package and the realisation of the
ideal clinic. Quality Improvement: Improving quality of services through
compliance with all domains of the National Core Standards. This includes
monitoring and evaluation of services and use of health information for effective
planning and decision making and the PPTICRM. Resource Management:
Ensure the management of all human resource components namely: HRM
(human resource planning, staff recruitment and retention, performance
agreements and reviews): HRD (human resource training and career
development): Labour Relations and Employee Health and Wellness. Ensure
effective supply chain management including the availability of medical and
general supplies through appropriate procurement and provisioning of goods
and services according to the Public Finance Management Act and National
Treasury Regulations. Ensure collaboration and contribution to a well-
functioning health information system in support of efficient and effective
service delivery. Ensure compliance with relevant financial prescripts. Ensure
assistance to the District Manager in monitoring and evaluating the services
provided through contracted service providers against the service level
agreements. Provide assistance with regard to infrastructure and maintenance
plans including input to budget processes. Ensure appropriate management of
functional technology according to relevant policies. Ensure the management
and maintenance of infrastructure, ensuring availability of functional
technology (including telecommunication systems) and equipment, as well as
maintenance and engineering thereof in the sub-district including district
hospital. Ensure effective procurement and provisioning of goods and services
according to the Public Finance Management Act and National Treasury
Regulations for effective services in the sub district. Risk Management: Ensure
that all risks are relayed to staff in terms of the District Risk Management Plan.
Ensure that all risks related to PHC services are identified and reported. Submit
reports as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MC Joka or Mr. ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances
Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand
deliver at the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green
street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to: ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za
Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 41/177 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE REF NO: NCDOH 133/2025 (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
131
Grade 3: R132 352 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner. Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees
1 year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa.
DUTIES : The candidate will be expected to render quality patient-care for all patients
within in the relevant unit. Exam, investigate, diagnose and the treatment of
patients. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentation and other departmental/unit meetings. Render applicable
administration function, attend meetings, workshops and training as directed
by the Head of Department. Observe and comply with all departmental policies
and guidelines regulating employment relationships and clinical functioning.
Perform duties as assigned by the supervisor and other senior officials.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102 or Dr Saeed Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or email to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered
POST 41/178 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST: GRADE 1-3 REF NO: NCDOH 134/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum, (all inclusive)
Grade 2: R1 014 705 per annum, (all inclusive)
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Master’s Degree in Clinical Psychology. Current registration with HPCSA as
Clinical Psychology. Grade 1: Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1
Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Psychologist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 8
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
DUTIES : Provide specialist level clinical psychological assessments and treatments to
clients of all age groups (including the promotion of mental health, early
detection, and treatment and rehabilitation to minimize long-term effects).
Design and implement treatment plans and critically evaluate outcomes.
Provide individual, family or group psychotherapy. Liaise with external
organizations (e.g., schools) for mental health promotion, prevention,
detection, and management. Organize and manage clinical activities such they
are proficient and integrated. Establish referral pathways at all levels of care
and liaise with District and Tertiary Hospitals in the cluster. Monitor and
evaluation of services for quality of care, compliance to policies and guidelines,
132
and statutory legislation. Provide development, training, and clinical
supervision of healthcare staff, community service health professionals,
undergraduate, postgraduate students through appropriate task sharing and
consultation. Provide support service to district health services. To integrate
these mental health services into their service delivery objectives. Establish,
maintain, and participate in the inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary forum that
promotes a seamless delivery of efficient and effective mental healthcare.
Utilize information technology and other information systems to manage mental
health information for the enhancement of service delivery and the writing of
reports. Support mental health related research.
ENQUIRIES : HR Recruitment & Selection Tel No: (054) 332 9147 OR Dr. D van der Byl Tel
No: (054) 332 9260/1
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or e-mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/179 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE – SPECIALTY NURSING REF NO: NCDOH
135/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in one
of the specialties: Child Nursing Science, Gerontological Nursing Science,
Nephrology, Medical and Surgical Nursing Science, Advanced Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science, Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science, Paediatric
Nursing Science, Advanced Paediatric and Neonatal Nursing Science,
Intensive Nursing Science, Oncology Nursing Science, Operating Theatre
Nursing Science, Neonatal Science, Ophthalmic Nursing Science &
Orthopaedic Nursing science, Plastic Surgery, Emergency and Critical Care
and/or other relevant specialty. Experience: Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years’
experience appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with SANC as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in
Specialty Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing – At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognizable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing case with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Planning and organising as well as
monitoring of objectives of the specialised unit. Effective utilization of human
and physical resources. Monitor the linen and cleaning in conjunction with
housekeeping staff. Participation in training and research. To assist in
orientation, induction of all nursing staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Seek learning opportunities such as in-
service training. To complete patient related data and partake in research.
Provision of support to Nursing Services. To promote and maintain the Code of
Conduct of the Public Service, Professional Body.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/180 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST REF NO: NCDOH 136/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Occupational Therapy. Registration certificate with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist:
Independent Practice. Proof of Current registration with the Health Professions
133
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist: Independent
Practice (proof of registration submitted only when shortlisted). Community
service applicants must have Independent Occupational Therapist practitioner
registration by the time of appointment. Experience: Grade 1: None or 1 year
relevant experience, after registration as an Occupational Therapist with
recognized Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
Occupational Therapist. Grade 2: 10 years appropriate experience after
registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist or 11 years relevant
experience, after registration as a Radiographer with recognized Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified Occupational Therapist.
Grade 3: 20 years appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist or 21 years relevant experience, after registration as
an Occupational Therapist with recognized Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified Occupational Therapist. Knowledge, Skills,
Attributes and Abilities: Sound knowledge of occupational therapy practice and
ethos. Good clinical reasoning and decision making skills. Knowledge on use
and care of equipment. Knowledge on scope of practice, ethical codes and
relevant legislation. Good organisation and time management skills. Excellent
communication and interpersonal relations. Basic supervisory skills.
Experience in a clinical tertiary setting with complex cases would be an
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide quality occupational therapy services according to patient needs to
both in and out-patients by assessing, treating and rehabilitating patients,
ensuring continuity of care and provision of assistive aids and mobility devices.
Maintain up to date and accurate clinical records and daily statistics, and write
reports. Function within a multi-disciplinary team. Implementation of
departmental policies and procedures. Ensure responsible utilisation of
equipment and consumable resources of the department. Participate in clinical
and non-clinical departmental activities and meetings as allocated by
supervisor. Provide assistance and training to junior staff and students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Paulsen Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM 3rd Floor Admin
Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/181 : DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER REF NO: NCDOH 137/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate with Diploma/B Tech Degree in Diagnostic Radiography.
Current Proof of Registration with Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an Independent Diagnostic Radiographer (proof submitted only
when shortlisted). Must have completed Community Service as per the
Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
HPCSA in the relevant profession. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 year's
appropriate experience in the relevant profession after registration with HPCSA
as Diagnostic Radiographer. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Knowledge And Skills: Computer literacy essential. Good interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of Public Service legislation, policies and procedures. Knowledge
of current DOH policies governing the Health sector and Radiograph and
profession. Experience in Digital Radiography. Experience in utilisation of
computerised Radiography system is recommended. Excellent time
management skills and must have knowledge of public service legislation
governing the health sector and radiography profession. Compliance in
budgeting, radiographic quality assurance, National Core standards, Safety
and Infection control principles. Training and supervision of students. Good
written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work as a member of a
multidisciplinary team. Must have a good understanding of public.
DUTIES : Provide and manage imaging procedures as requested by the doctors.
Evaluate requests forms by verifying patient information and ensuring patient
history and examination correspond. Operate radiological equipment correctly
for specific exam. Interrogate images. Ensure an even flow of patient at all
times. Ensure adherence to radiation, health and safety protocols. Manage
staff radiation procedure and ensure that all staff wear their devices at all times.
134
Protect patient and colleagues from radiation. Monitor personal radiation
exposure. Adhere to all infection control policies. Conduct patient care and
quality assurance. Ensure patient safety at all times. Protect patient
confidentiality. Conduct quality control and safe-keep equipment. Have
knowledge of all equipment and troubleshooting when there is a breakdown.
Assist and implement quality control procedures. Train junior staff. Report
machine faults to Radiographers in charge. Ensure staff/student development.
Present for in-service training sessions. Training junior staff at CT/MRI.
Develop protocols for CT/MRI.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Du Plooy Tel No: (053) 802 2911
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM 3rd Floor Admin
Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za All applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/182 : SOCIAL WORKER REF NO: NCDOH 138/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Registration with the South African Council of Social Professions as a Social
Worker, Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SACSP as a
Social Worker, Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a
Social Worker after registration with the SACSP, Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ appropriate experience as a Social Worker after registration with the
SACSP, Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years’ appropriate experience as a Social
Worker after registration with the SACSP. Skills Profile: Organizational skills,
Job knowledge, good communication skills (verbal and written), Interpersonal
skills, Conflict management skills, Problem Solving skills.
DUTIES : To ensure for maximum preventative, curative, rehabilitative and palliative care
of all in-patients and referred out patients of the hospital. To record
interventions with patients and also keep statistics of patients seen. Educate
and advise clients as well as the multidisciplinary members of the health team
on social work intervention. Enhance ongoing professional development and
growth in the field of social work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Paulsen Tel No: (053) 802 2911
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM 3rd Floor Admin
Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/183 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GENERAL NURSING REF NO: NCDOH 139/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 - R601 638 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing College
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse
with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience
appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years’ experience appropriate/Recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander Tel No: (053) 802 9111
135
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/184 : STAFF NURSE (ENROLLED NURSE) REF NO: NCDOH 140/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R246 798 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 – R294 513 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R376 455 per annum
CENTRE : ZF Mgcawu District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse, Registration with the SANC
as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None, Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
experience after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse, Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years of experience after registration with the SANC as Staff
Nurse Skills Profile: Good Communication skills, Basic writing skills, Basic
Interpersonal Skills, Elementary Facilitation skills, Networking skills, Problem
solving skills, Knowledge Management.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans, Provide basic
clinical nursing care, Effective utilisation of resources, Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be hand
delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia
Hospital), Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old
Gordonia Hospital) Private Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/185 : DENTAL ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 141/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training (with duration of less
than 2 years) that allows for the required registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Dental Assistant. Registration
with Professional council: Registration for 2025/2026 as Dental Assistant with
the HPCSA. Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an appropriate
qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the required
registration with the HPCSA as a Dental Assistant. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience after obtaining an appropriate qualification or
prescribed in-service training that allows for the required registration with the
HPCSA as a Dental Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s
licence (code B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communicate
skills, organising abilities and to work under pressure. Knowledge of patient
preparations and dental instruments. Knowledge of the National Oral Health
Policy, National Norms, Standards and Practice guidelines for Primary Oral
Health Care, Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Optimal assistance and support to the Dentist with dental treatment. Preparing
and sterilizing Dental rooms, instruments and equipment. Perform
administrative tasks and record statistics. Scheduling appointments and
manage office communication such as phone calls and e-mails. Educating
patients on dental hygiene practice, counselling and promote health care.
Maintaining inventory, stock control and ordering office or dental supplies.
Ensuring compliance with infection control and safety protocols. Support to
supervisor and support to other Dental Clinics within the Sub-structure.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Ikram Tel No: (053) 802 2911
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM 3rd Floor Admin
Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za All applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/186 : NURSING ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 142/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
136
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant
Registration with SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration with the SANC
as a nursing assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience after
registration with SANC as a nursing assistant. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to rotate and assist in
all departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective communication skills. Practical knowledge and
experience of basic nursing care in a hospital setting. Interpersonal skills.
Demonstrate elementary understanding of nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform an elementary clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope
of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Promote quality of elementary nursing care as directed by the professional
scope of practice and standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Alexander Tel No: (053) 802 9111
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM 3rd Floor Admin
Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an
application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/187 : NURSING ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 143/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
CENTRE : Kakamas Hospital and Postmasburg Hospital, ZF Mgcawu District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant, Registration with the
SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None, Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years’ experience after registration with the SANC as a nursing assistant,
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years of experience after registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care), Prove elementary
clinical nursing care, Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F. van Neel Tel No: (054) 337 0600
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be e-mailed to nchealthhr-zfm@ncpg.gov.za or be hand
delivered to 110 Schroder Street, ZF Mgcawu District Office (Old Gordonia
Hospital), Upington or couriered via postal services to 110 Schroder Street (Old
Gordonia Hospital) Private Bag X5900, Upington, 8801. Applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 41/188 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (20 SESSIONS / WEEK) REF
NO: NCDOH 144/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract Appointment)
SALARY : Grade 1: R420 per hour
Grade 2: R488 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Hospital (12 Months contract)
REQUIREMENTS : An M-degree in Clinical Psychology. Registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical Psychologist. Sound
understanding of the Criminal Procedure Act. Basic Computer skills in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook. Grade 1: less than 8 years experience as a Clinical
Psychologist), Grade 2: At least 8 years, but less than 16 years as a Clinical
Psychologist), Grade 3: 16 years and more experience as a Clinical
Psychologist.
DUTIES : Provide Forensic Psychology services at NCMHH (incl. 30 Days Observation
assessments and State Patient Care). Clinical and psychometric assessments
as applicable. Assessment of 30 Days Observation cases. Assessment of
accountability and ability to stand trial. Participation and presentation at MDT
Forensic Case Conferences. Case formulation and Court preparation for expert
witnessing when subpoenaed. Visits to relevant service provision sites (e.g.
courts, DCS). Report writing. Perform clinical assessments and clinical
psychology interventions of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital (NCMHH)
137
service user’s. Provide a broad spectrum of clinical and psychometric
assessments as required by specific needs (e.g. Child and adolescent
assessments). Participate in Departmental (Psychology) professional
development (psychology presentations). CPD Activities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. AJ Malgas Tel No: 053 802 3618
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the front reception of
Northern Cape Department of Health, James Exum Building, 144 Dutoitspan
Road, Kimberley or E-Mailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
138
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 41/189 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: CAS 41/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Competencies: A good understanding of the
following: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); Treasury Regulations;
Basic Accounting System (BAS). Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and Organising; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Compile and coordinate monthly cashflows inputs; Capturing of
virements/shifting of funds; Draw BAS reports to update monthly cashflows and
personnel audits; Assist in the preparation of monthly finance focus meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Danileyo Tel No: (021) 483 9553
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 41/190 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OIL GAS AND MARITIME SECTOR REF NO: DEDAT
03/2025 R1
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Economics or Logistics; A minimum of 3 years management experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: HRM processes; Labour relations;
Financial management; Project management; Public Service procedures;
139
Applicable policies and procedures; Relationship management; Skills needed:
Applied Strategic Thinking; Creative Thinking; Decision Making; Computer
Literacy; Problem-solving; Service Delivery Innovation; Impact & Influence,
networking; Organisation and Effectiveness; Self-management; Team
membership; Communication (written and verbal).
DUTIES : To develop operational Oil, Gas and Maritime sector programmes derived from
the strategic framework for Trade and Sector Development (TSD); Maintain
networks with key stakeholders and ensure horizontal and vertical alignment
with the sector; Support and implement the market growth and promotion of
the sector; Identify sector specific blockages and participate in the unblocking
of opportunities in order to achieve strategic outcomes; Co-develop and
support programmes to improve sector competitiveness and development; To
act as a project manager for the various Oil, Gas and Maritime programmes
being designed and developed through national and provincial; Human
Resource Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 483 9494
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 41/191 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: CLIMATE CHANGE
(ADAPTATION) REF NO: EADP 22/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R612 480 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year Degree (or equivalent qualification) in Social, Natural,
Physical, Environmental Sciences or relevant Engineering qualification; A
minimum of 6 years relevant post-qualification experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: The development and/or the implementation of
climate change adaptation related policies, legislation, strategies, action plans,
guidelines and environmental norms and standards; Mainstreaming and
capacity building climate change programmes across multiple sectors;
Development and rollout of financing and funding models. Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Contribute to the review and update of the Western Cape Climate Change
Response Strategy and Implementation Plan and monitor, assess, drive and
report on climate change response implementation in the Western Cape;
Guide, coordinate and position adaptation response actions through
mainstreaming the Western Cape Climate Change Response Strategy and
implementation plan across provincial sectors and into local provincial level
initiatives, policies, strategies and plans where applicable as well as associated
monitoring, evaluation and reporting; Develop, drive and support the
implementation of a climate change adaptation pathway for the province that
is aligned with the Western Cape Climate Change Response Strategy and that
is pro-poor, inclusive and just; Conduct research as required such as climate
change adaptation strategies, risk and vulnerability assessments, monitoring
and evaluation, climate budget tagging, etc; Undertake presentations, capacity
140
building sessions and workshops on climate change to local government,
business, civil society and other stakeholders; Coordinate and participate in
international climate change adaptation platforms and compile adaptation
focused climate change funding applications, particularly large international
funding opportunities; Project, Human Resources and Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 2775
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/192 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDICAL SUPPORT (MENTAL HEALTH)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Office of the CD, Directorate: Specialised Hospitals
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year National Diploma /
Degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registrable with a South African
Statutory Health Professions Councils. Experience: Appropriate work
experience with regards to mental health and rehabilitation, related to aspects
in hospital and health service environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Must be open-minded and able to accommodate diverse views, and be
innovative, creative and a lateral thinker. Able to respond decisively and
appropriately to rapidly changing situations. Valid Driver’s Licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Quality Assurance
Framework and the related internal and external policies Statistical and
analytical skills. Appropriate knowledge and skills related to mental health,
rehabilitation. Ability to identify, successfully initiate and develop new health
projects. Change-management skills. Computer skills. Sound knowledge of the
Mental Health Care Act, 2002 [Act 17 of 2002], and the mental health care
package, policies and the ethos of community-based mental health care.
Sound knowledge of mental health and rehabilitation and understanding of the
health-care management systems including patient management systems,
referral systems and Emergency Psychiatric Services.
DUTIES : Support the director with leadership and corporate governance of Specialised
Hospitals, rehabilitation and disability (including intellectual disability)
processes, including oral health. Support and ensure oversight of Quality, risk
management, OHS and IPC in Specialised Hospitals. Ensure the provision of
clinical governance implementation support to Specialised Hospitals. External
and Internal stakeholder engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Dean Tel No: (021)833-9482
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/193 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
141
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Klusmann Tel No: (023) 348-6472 / Ms N Johaar (secretary) Tel No: (023)
348-1435
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/194 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the
individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Management and Facility Management. Management and supervisory
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to lead, innovate and drive change.
Ability to work in a team and meet deadlines. Ability to analyse and use data
for problem-solving and decision-making. Excellent knowledge and skills of HR
policies, procedure and practice pertaining to Human Resource Management,
Human Resource Development and Labour Relations. Computer literacy in MS
Office.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient management of all aspects of Human Resource
Management, including Labour Relations and Human Resource Development.
Strategic, operational and financial management of all Support Services
including waste management, linen, transport, porters, telecommunications,
142
residence, food services and contracted services. Strategic, operational and
financial management of technical services, including maintenance and health
technology. Provide strategic management and leadership, as member of
Khayelitsha Hospital senior management team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JA Kruger Tel No: (021) 360-4623
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/195 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 183 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to perform relief duties at pharmacies in
the sub-structure. Valid driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and Pharmaceutical Acts
and Laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high
standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to train staff. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Familiar with
Primary Health Care Environment, Antimicrobial Stewardship & Differentiated
models of Care.
DUTIES : Support with the efficient and cost-effective functioning of pharmaceutical
service in all Khayelitsha Sub District PHC sites including adherence to
statutory requirements and policies. Support to ensure provision of safe and
cost-effective pharmaceutical care to patients. Support and accept co -
responsibility for pharmaceutical supply management in Khayelitsha clinics by
ensuring safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, distribution and
discarding of pharmaceuticals. Support the pharmaceutical budget and
expenditure to ensure compliance with financial prescripts. Support with
monitoring of Human Resources and supervising of Pharmacists Assistants to
ensure optimum productivity and people development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sigcau Tel No: (021) 360-5200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
143
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/196 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: OBSTETRICS
SERVICES: ANTENATAL HIGH-RISK CLINIC)
SALARY : Grade 1: R693 096 per annum
Grade 2: R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e diploma/
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwifery.
A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science.
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/ recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1 year post-basic qualification in the relevant
speciality. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be required to work shifts,
weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
computer literacy. Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership,
decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Good organisational skills and
the ability to function under pressure. Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within the public sector.
Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation and
monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal, specialized Nursing service as an Operational
Manager. Participative management and utilization of Human and Financial
Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the area. Initiate and
participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the institution.
To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/197 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (CBS & FBS)
(COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH SERVICES)
West Coast District Office
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as a Professional Nurse in Community nursing Science, Psychiatry
and Midwife. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical
Programme Co-ordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post,
incumbent to maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in
Community nursing Science, Psychiatry and Midwife. Experience: A minimum
of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
144
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when
required and travel in the district or province as may be required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to think strategically and analytically,
work independently, as well as the ability to interpret and implement policies
and guidelines. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel) and
good report writing. Ability to work on health information systems, ie Sinjani,
SPV, SharePoint.
DUTIES : Overall planning, coordination, policy implementation and services monitoring
of mental health, chronic diseases of lifestyle, rehabilitation services, palliative
care, maternal health as part of the late-life course approach. Provide
oversight, supervision and support to health facilities regarding quality
assurance policies and procedures. Support to community outreaches and
specific projects with NPOs and health facilities to improve health outcomes.
Monitoring and evaluation of integrated health services performance linked to
specific data elements, indicators in the district health and annual performance
plans. Interface management with all stakeholders, internal and external
structures to enhance implementation of COPC principles and wellness.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Kogana Tel No: (022) 814-0348/9
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/198 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SONOGRAPHER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to work
overtime. Willingness to conduct outreaches to local clinics, community
day/health centres and communities. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy in word processing, data management and analysis. Ability
to work independently and in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough
knowledge of ante-natal, ante-natal Doppler paediatric, gynaecology- and
abdominal-ultrasound studies. Completion of supplementary courses on
diagnostic ultrasound and knowledge and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at both undergraduate and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced level
with the focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (OSG) imaging in Khayelitsha
CHC. General care of patients as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and
statistics. Actively take part in CPD- program, as a learner as well as In-service
training.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mokitimi Tel No: (021) 360-4703
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
145
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written practical test and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/199 : EMS COURSE COORDINATOR GRADE 2 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 2: R480 108 per annum
Grade 3: R562 119 per annum
Grade 4: R624 288 per annum
CENTRE : College of Emergency Care, Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 2: Successful completion of the ECT
programme that allows for registration with the HPCSA as ECT. Grade 3:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) course or National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 4:
Successful completion of the B-Tech degree that allows registration with the
HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with the
professional council: Grade 2: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as ECT. Grade 3: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic. Grade 4:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
ECP. Experience: Grade 2: 3 years after registration with HPCSA as ECT.
Grade 3: 3 years after registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 4: 3
years after registration with HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid code C1 or code B driver’s license. Valid professional driver’s permit
(PrDP). Physically and mentally fit to perform the duties required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proficient in computer literacy. Ability to work
under pressure in a stressful environment. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to teach, assess and moderate across all College
Programmes. Ability to work in a team in Higher Education. Supervise and
mentor lecturers and students.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient teaching on NQF 5,6 and 8 EMC or allied health
programmes. Ensure Adherence to the College, HPCSA, CHE and DHET
accreditation process and policies. Perform front-line vehicle duties with
students and other clinical duties. Provide teaching assistance with other
Clinical training programmes where required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Moodley Tel No: (021) 938-6220
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment. -Successful
candidates are expected to obtain a Code C1 driver's license within six months
after appointment. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
146
POST 41/200 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: SPINAL
WARD C)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A Post basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical care
Nursing: General. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical care Nursing: General after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts and after-hours including
weekends, public holidays and night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related
acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving report writing, liaison
and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS package. Ability to lift and
turn patients. Ability to think and function independently and to work in a
multidisciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources (equipment and consumables). Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development, compliance to professional,
legal and ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Ensure efficient and
accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and participation
in research activities. Liaise, advise and effectively communicate with the
relevant internal and external stakeholders for continuity of client care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Brenton Tel No: (021) 370-2313
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)” The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/201 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE AND CSSD)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (Degree/Diploma
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least
1 year, accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Operating Theatre. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
147
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to be on call after hours for
theatre. Willingness to assist with shifts and after-hour hospital cover including
weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime based on operational
needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and
understanding of nursing and health service-related acts, legislation, policies
and practices Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of the Internet. Ability
to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic, specialized Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a professional Nurse in Operating
Theatre. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Practice within the realms of IPC, OHAS, Risk Management, Quality
Assurance, hospital protocols, procedures and policies. Provision of effective
support to the Nursing Manager and maintaining professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Pekeur Tel No: (021) 808-6103
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre
Nursing. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/202 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
MATERNITY)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Advanced Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration
with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for nursing.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Advanced Midwife and Neonatology
Nursing Science, after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power point and Outlook). Implement skills to plan
148
and organize the service by problem solving and decision making. Leadership
towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives in the Obstetrics
Department. Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary
team to ensure good patient care. Ability to communicate effectively (both
written and verbal).
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing needs, the
planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing
personnel as Professional Nurse in the Obstetric department Utilize human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Render and
supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support staff with surgical and
medical procedures. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards
and development of self and others. Display of core values of the Department
of Health & Wellness in the WCH. In the execution of duties, while practicing
within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R de Silva Tel No: (021) 808-6103
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will
be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period
of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
-This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time
for registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and
Neonatology nursing science with the South African Nursing Council. “The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/203 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Plettenberg Bay Clinic, Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R 48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the specific specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to work
overtime when necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-district.
Willingness to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
NIMART training or experience. Problem-solving, report writing, liaison and
facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Good
communication skills verbal and written).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Assist
with the management of Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and
149
Health support and infrastructure and equipment management under
supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PM Peters Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route District,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/204 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach; Knysna Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness
to travel within the Sub District. Willingness to work overtime when necessary.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good psychosocial- and health assessment
skills. Knowledge of Mental Health Legislation and Psychopharmacology.
Good problem-solving, communication, interpersonal, planning and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Actively participate as a specialist nurse in the provision of acute and chronic
mental health care to clients of all age groups at Primary Health Care facilities
in the Knysna/Bitou Sub District. Make bio-psychosocial health assessments
that are culturally sensitive. Design and implement treatment plans and
critically evaluate outcomes. Engage in case management activities such as
organising, accessing, negotiating, coordinating and integrating services.
Promote and maintain mental health and manage the effects of mental illness
through education, counselling and psycho-social rehabilitation. Participate in
the training and clinical supervision of other health care providers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PM Peters Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: in Advanced
Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool
150
of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Garden Route
District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/205 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: REVENUE (INCOME)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate patient fees/revenue experience in
a health environment. Appropriate Clinicom experience. Appropriate Accounts
Receivable (AR) experience. Appropriate BAS experience. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid drivers’ licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills in MS Office package.
Appropriate knowledge of revenue, debtor accounts and banking, cash
management, understanding hospital fees, policies and procedures, medical
scheme Act 131 of 1998, handling of state money, PFMA of 1999, hospital
information systems (e.g. Clinicom, AR, JAC, BI etc). Good interpersonal skills
and the ability to act independently, objectively, and confidently, work under
pressure and adhere to deadlines.
DUTIES : Responsible to supervise fees/revenue and cashier components. Responsible
to supervise OPD reception and medical records sections. Responsible for the
monitoring and controlling debtor accounts, medical aid schemes, debtor
instalment, debt collection and handling of provincial government moneys.
Implement and/evaluate workflow in line with policies, protocols and
procedures. Adhere to weekly/monthly reporting. Patient liaison management
(i.e. manage requests for medical reports, receiving payments timeously,
facilitating requests between the hospital and the requestors). Render support
to Management and the rest of the hospital and supply ad-hoc reports when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E van der Westhuizen Tel No: (021) 833-9445
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/206 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(CLINICAL SOURCING)
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Degree/Diploma.
Experience: Appropriate experience and understanding of procuring
consumables, services and equipment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver's licence (Code B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Report-writing.
Rigorous expenditure analysis and reporting. Ability to assimilate and interpret
detailed information. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Attention to detail. Good organisational skills. Computer literacy (Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal communication. Knowledge of
the PFMA, National Treasury Regulations and Preferential Procurement
Regulations.
DUTIES : End-to-end management of the sourcing process. Integrated demand,
acquisition and contract management service of clinical goods and services
commodities. Supplier relationship and performance management. Internal
and external stakeholder management. Delivery of optimal commercial
benefits to the Department. Relevant reporting as per Legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J September Tel No: (021) 834-9020 or email,
Jeremy.September@westerncape.gov.za
151
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/207 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Council of Social Service Professions as a
Social Worker. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker.
Experience: Grade 1: No experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Grade
4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license
(Code B/EB) and reliable transport to work. Willingness to be available after
hours for emergencies. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of social
work theory, with a demonstrable practical approach to client care, problem
solving and knowledge of relevant legislation, policy and public health referral
pathways. Inclusive style with transversal approach focused on comprehensive
service delivery, willingness to work as part of a Multi-disciplinary Team,
including involvement with the Thuthuzela Sexual Assault Survivors Centre.
Good leadership and communication skills, team player, conflict resolution
skills with strong administrative, organisational, analytical skills & report writing
skills. Computer literacy with competence in Microsoft Word, Excel and
PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: with provision of a comprehensive social work service
for adult & paediatric patients including consultation, family meetings and MDT
rounds. Clinical & Administrative Governance: with evidence-based practice,
utilisation of data to improve services and effective management of resources.
Teaching, training & research: Teaching & training of students and junior
colleagues as well as participation in the hospital academic program and
research opportunities. Systems management and participation within the
Metro East “ecosystem”: Partnerships with relevant internal and external
stakeholders, including fostering of good relationships with NGO’s and other
branches of public health / government.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1990
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
152
POST 41/208 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
and knowledge in Patient Administration/ debt management and/or hospital
accounting environment, medical records, and of Hospital Chapter 18 and
UPFS. Appropriate practical experience in Clinicom, JAC, and the Accounts
Receivable System in a Patient Administration environment. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office, Word, Excel Clinicom, JAC and Accounts Receivable) in
terms of collating, interpreting and inserting data into a spreadsheet. Ability to
plan, organize and prioritize responsibilities with analytical reasoning.
Knowledge of Patient Administration related policies, procedures and
practices. Ability to maintain a filing system. Ability to work under pressure.
Conversant with Uniform Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS), Hospital Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18 and the Hospital Information System (Accounts
Receivable System, Clinicom, JAC). Excellent interpersonal skills addressing
diverse cultures and the ability to work in a team. Conflict resolution skills. Good
Management and Labour Relations skills.
DUTIES : Manage Patient Administration including que marshalling and
interdepartmental liason regarding patient flow and enquiries. Manage Human
Resources in Patient Administration including Labour Relations, Financial
Management, PERMIS, training and development of staff, duty rosters. Deliver
a professional service. Ensure accurate classification of all patients/debtors to
be audit compliant. Management of all administration functions pertaining to
attendances, admissions and handling of receipts on Clinicom. Manage
financial transactions (Cash Collection, Handover Certificates and Collectors
Reports).
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Kombrink Tel No: (044) 802-4332
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/209 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING GENERAL) (X2
POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital, Male Ward and Female/Children Ward), Stellenbosch
Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public
holidays, weekends and rotate and assist in other wards. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function
independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient
care. Excellent communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of quality basic nursing patient centered care in a hospital setting.
Provision of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set
153
standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of
human and financial resources, Information management and support
services. Improving quality of health services. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RZ De Silva Tel No: (021) 808-6153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). “The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/210 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: VARIOUS
WARDS) (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with the
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day & night duty, weekends and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to other
departments if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/
make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal, leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/ quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
154
POST 41/211 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X5 POSTS) MITCHELL’S PLAIN CHC - MOU, GUGULETHU CHC-
MOU, HANOVER PARK CHC – HIV/AIDS, GUGULETHU CHC – PHC
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain CHC - MOU (X1 Post)
Gugulethu CHC - MOU (X2 Posts)
Crossroads CDC (X1 Post)
Hanover Park CHC – HIV/AIDS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shift and overtime
when requested. Willingness to support another facility by working there when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Care
processes and procedures Nursing Act. Problem solving and decision-making.
Report writing skills. Health promotion and team building. Good interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021) 370-5008
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical,
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/212 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
(FEMALE/CHILD WARD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
155
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including weekends, public
holidays, night shifts and overtime. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the
facility and to work at the clinics in the Sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Self- discipline and motivation. The ability to
function independently under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing Practice,
Infection Prevention Control, control measures and practices. Basic skills in
MS Word. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nicholas Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/213 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Zoar Amalien Steyn CC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work in all Primary Health Care facilities e.g.
Community Day Centers, Clinics, Satellite clinics and on Mobile Clinics. Valid
driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Planning and organisational skills. Self- discipline and
motivation. The ability to function independently under pressure. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practise within legal and regulatory frameworks according to Ideal Clinic
standards. Maintain a constructive working relationship with all relevant
stakeholders of the Primary Health Care Team. Utilize human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in training
156
programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-
ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Labuschagne Tel No: (028) 551 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/214 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Murraysburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Willing to work shifts, including weekends, public holidays and night
duty. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility and to work at the clinics
in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
computer skill in Ms Word. The ability to function independently under
pressure, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care.
Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection Prevention Control, control
measures and practices. Excellent communication skills (both written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FK Fass Tel No: (049) 844 - 0021
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
157
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/215 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of PERSAL and relevant functions.
Appropriate experience of Salary systems and Personnel management.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work after hours.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of PERSAL. Computer literate in
MS Office (Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook. Knowledge of the
People Management prescripts and Regulations and basic understanding of
Human Resource Management. Good interpersonal and organizational skills
and the ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Responsible for all Human Resource related functions within the HR
Department. Handle appointments, service terminations, salary administration,
PILIR, WCA AND general service conditions, audit of leave and personnel files,
debt management, commuted overtime, pension administration, housing,
transfers and MMS structuring. Responsible for capturing transactions on
PERSAL. Handle all personnel enquiries and correspondence (written and
verbal) and maintain registers and filing system. Effective support to
supervisors, management and members of the public with regards to Human
Resource and Personnel matters. Responsible for Audit reports (COT)
overtime, housing, rental, leave and RWOEE) and feedback to supervisor
pertaining Audit finds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D Martin Tel No: (021) 815-8573
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/216 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Greenpoint CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate practical experience in Information Management
environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Understanding the Ditcom
process and Information Technology. Knowledge and experience in
departmental systems, SINJANI; PHCIS, Clinicom, Ideal Clinic. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Training Skills. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Perform administrative role as a member of the information management team
and participation in health information co-ordinating activities. Collect, collate,
compile data, validate data, analyse data trends, ensuring proper data flow,
data quality monitoring and preparing and data reports for meetings. Capture
data on the respective systems and have knowledge and experience in
effective patient folder management. Local supervision of the PHCIS 4, Ideal
clinic database, computer hardware, software issues and IT related queries.
Support to Facility Manager and administrative relief duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Appolis Tel No: (021) 202-0933
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Southern Western Sub-
structure, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
158
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/217 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (PATIENT ADMINISTRATION)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Montagu Hospital, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Patient Administration and/or Hospital
Fees environment & HIS system. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to
climb 3-step ladders. Willingness to work 12-hour day/night shifts & weekends.
Willingness to work overtime and provide relief in other departments as
operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Windows, Word, Excel and Access). Perform Medical Aid/EDI (Electronic
Data Interchange) related transactions in the billing systems and billing related
transactions for Subsidized Patients & Externally Funded Patients. Knowledge
of patient ICD 10 coding & HIS system. Knowledge of applicable policies -
Hospital Fees memorandum Chapter 18, the Uniform Patient Fee Schedule
(UPFS), Finance Instructions & Medical Records policies. Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written.
DUTIES : Assist with Hospital Fees, Patient Administration and Medical Records
Division, Effective and Efficient management of Billing and Administration of
Debtor accounts, Correct Patient details recording on HIS systems and in
folders, Perform Cashier duties, reconciliations & handovers as per financial
instructions, Regular archiving of patient folders as per prescripts, Reporting
and compilation of MVAs & IODs patient folders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Williams Tel No: (023) 614-8104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Montagu Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/218 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
LOGIS and the Electronic Procurement System. Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience in Asset Management,
Disposal management & Stocktaking. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Applied knowledge of the Accounting Officer System, SCM delegation, PFMA,
PTI and NTR. Applied knowledge of Western Cape Supplier Database &
Centralized Supplier Database. Ability to handle a high work volume and meet
strict deadlines. Ability to function independently, as well as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook).
Knowledge of LOGIS procurement system.
DUTIES : Acquisition, Receive and issue assets and to end-users. Advertising of
quotations according to the Procurement Plan. Preparing of orders and follow-
ups. Management of Assets: Disposal process, movements, asset verification
and compliance. Sub-system controller – assist System controller with all
LOGIS system related tasks & enquiries. Handle queries in all aspects within
the Supply Chain Management Department and provide effective support
service to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms XM Sonandi Tel No: (044) 802-4507
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
159
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/219 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate clerical experience in an acute Hospital environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work flexitime/shifts. Relieve
other ward clerks. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint). Electronic processing of operational
statistics. Procurement experience to facilitate and maintain adequate stock
and equipment levels. Knowledge of LOGIS. Knowledge of Clinicom.
Knowledge of HealthNet.
DUTIES : The provision of an administrative system to manage the activities of the
operational nursing unit. Providing operational support to the nursing unit.
Maintain code of ethics and core values to ensure effective interpersonal
communication. Facilitate the feedback to the Manager re patients, stock and
equipment procurement and maintenance thereof. Maintain Clinicom process
to record patient movement and complete files and UPFS & other electronic
documentation. Perform such administrative tasks and relief as may be
delegated by the staff and Health team, also in other departments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CK Korthom Tel No: (044) 802-4644 / 4537
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/220 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Scottsdene Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Health Information Management and
appropriate Health Related Information Systems. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of data, capturing, scanning, preparation and creating graphs.
Good interpersonal, communication and organization skills. Computer Literacy
skills in (MS Word, Excel, Power point, Outlook and Teams). Ability to work
under pressure, independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Data management – scanning/collation, capturing and submission to the next
level. Assist with data quality monitoring, maintenance, and resolution –
validation, verification, and data trend analysis. Perform an office
administration role - i.e., minute taking, filing, copies and logistical
arrangements & assist with preparing presentations and reports. Provide
general support to all Information Management and HAST clerks at facility level
and assist with IM training. Assist with internal and external objective audits.
Assist with ICT requests.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AJ Mullins Tel No: (021) 810-8101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post. The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
160
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/221 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital, Witzenburg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Personnel administration.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer (MS Word and Excel),
numeracy and mathematical skills. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to
work in a team context. Knowledge of Human Resource prescripts in Public
Service. Ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Effectively handle all personnel matters, such as salaries, pension,
appointments, resignations, transfers, leave and other allowances on
PERSAL. Assist staff, colleagues, supervisors, management and members of
the public with regards to all Human Resources and Personnel matters
including Recruitment and Selection processes. Assist with all other
administrative functions in the personnel component. Handle a variety of
personnel, written and telephonic enquiries. Audit personnel, pension and
leave files. Variety of clerical duties including filing. Responsible for capturing
transaction on PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJ Owen Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Ceres Hospital, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/222 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION: PILIR OFFICE)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate experience regarding the PERSAL salary system. Appropriate
experience regarding the PILIR process and administration and temporary
incapacity leave. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal
communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
Knowledge of Human Resource Management and the PILIR process.
Knowledge of HR policies, prescripts and legislation. Knowledge and
experience of PERSAL and their relevant functions.
DUTIES : Receive, check and capture all sick leave applications. Handle telephone and
walk-in enquiries. Hand out and receive all PILIR applications. Process and
capture long and short PILIR applications. Send PILIR applications to the
Health Risk Manager. Make print outs and check / compare with Z1’s on staff
files. Check to see if Medical certificates are correctly completed. Capture
incapacity leave and ill-health retirement on Excel database. Send PILIR
documents for provisional approval to Head of Department. Willingness to
rotate between departments (Housing, IOD & Pensions) and perform general
HR duties. Filing of all documents on a weekly basis. Ad hoc tasks as requested
by Supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Theunissen Tel No: (021) 938-5022
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
161
POST 41/223 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Fees-related environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. -Knowledge of
Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS, Clinicom, Billing and Finance
instructions. -Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Accurate patient assessments, capturing of admissions, attendance, transfers
and discharge/disposal of patients as per PGWC hospital fees policies. -
Capturing of ICD10 coding and debit charge entries to Invoices as per UPFS
and PGWC billing procedures. Ensure folder control and management thereof.
Booking of patient transport on Healthnet, covering for colleagues and
undertaking various other clerical duties as and when required within the
patient admin department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swartz Tel No: (021) 404-3478
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/224 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with extensive experience that focuses on the Key Performance
Area's (KRA's) of post. Experience: Appropriate stores experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate within Supply Chain Management
Section. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Instructions and
the Accounting Officer Systems. Knowledge of Inventory and Warehouse
Management. Computer literate (i.e. MS Excel and Word). Good interpersonal
and communication skills. Knowledge and practical experience of a
warehousing/logistics system. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to stores such as receiving of inventory, issuing and
follow –up with suppliers. Effectively and efficiently perform all warehouse
processes to comply with Standard Operating Procedures. Capturing various
documentation on the Inventory/Supply Chain System and filing of documents.
Ensure compliance with all relevant prescripts relating to Supply Chain
Management and Stores. Handle telephonic and written queries from Suppliers
and End Users. Safeguard and manage stock holding in various stores, identify
slow moving stock items and report to Supervisor. Provide effective support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BR Scholtz Tel No: (021) 938-4631 / Mr LF Campher Tel No: (021) 938-
5546
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/225 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
Crossroads Community Day Centre (X1 Post)
162
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Administration/ Admissions.
Appropriate Client Care experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Prepared to work long hours (which may include night duty, weekends and
public holidays) and work overtime on short notice. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility, and to work
independently and unsupervised, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Registration and capturing of patient information on PHCIS. Recordkeeping,
filing, retrieving, tracing of folders, destruction and opening of folders. Cash
Management. Effective and efficient handling of patient documentation.
Perform relief duties within the facility as needed. Effective and efficient
handling of enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Meyer Tel No: (021) 684-1418
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/226 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty, including weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility and to work at the clinics in
the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Self- discipline and motivation.
Computer literate in Microsoft office programs (Excel and Word). Ability to work
in a team across the service platforms.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take actions to improve
quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention and control.
Reporting on Patient Safety and adverse incidents. Effective recordkeeping.
Support to supervisor and colleagues by team participation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Laubscher Tel No: (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
163
POST 41/227 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Gouda Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to support when
necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-district as well as on mobile
clinic. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and interpersonal relationships. Basic Computer skills in MS Word and
Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of
the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Participate in infection
prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Williams Tel No: (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Drakenstein Sub District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/228 : DENTAL ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Wellington CDC, Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-
service training (with duration of less than 2 years) that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Assistant. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration as
Dental Assistant with the HPCSA 2025/2026. Experience: Grade 1: None after
obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that
allows for the required registration with the HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience after obtaining an appropriate
qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the required
registration with the HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Inherent requirements of the
job: -Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of patient preparations and dental instruments. Knowledge of the
National Oral Health Policy, National Norms, Standards and Practice
Guidelines for Primary Oral Health Care, Occupational Health & Safety Act.
Ability to communicate in two of the three official languages of the Western
Cape. Computer literacy.
164
DUTIES : Clinical Assistance: Optimal assistance with dental treatment at Oral Health
facilities. Administration Functions: Efficient and effective management of
clinic, statistics and stock. Making appointments for patients and liaising with
schools. Keep accurate filing and patient record up to date. Ensuring quality of
care.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MM Scheffers Tel No: (021) 864-9700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirement may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within (Drakenstein Sub
District), for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/229 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience of maintenance and repairs of electrical components.
Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to operate and use required tools and
equipment skilfully and safely. Ability to perform heavy physical labour. A valid
(Code B) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant with
the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Acts.
DUTIES : Perform standby duties. Carry out minor maintenance and repairs of electrical
fixtures and components. Assist with repairs and emergency breakdowns
(including after-hours repairs). Assist with the control and requisitioning of
material and parts. Clean areas where work has been carried out. Ensure that
all tools and materials are available before commencing any tasks. Assist the
artisan Cadre in the execution of their respective duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Willemse Tel No: (021) 918-1894
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/230 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (MIXED SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of
the job: Will be required to work shifts, night duty, weekends, public holidays
as well as overtime. Willingness to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal
relationships. Knowledge to relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols
of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
165
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Van Der Linde Tel No: (044) 802-4461
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/231 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : MOU Michael Mapongwana CDC and Trauma Khayelitsha CHC,
Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 2:
A Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Nursing Assistant with SANC. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Nursing
Assistant with SANC. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts,
public holidays, night duty, after hours and weekends. Ability to work under
pressure. Willingness to rotate to other facilities within the Khayelitsha Eastern
Sub Structure based on operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work in the multi-disciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP’s, policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily
living which includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility, and
elimination processes. Monitor patient vital signs and report any abnormal
findings. Reporting on patient safety and adverse incidents. Effective utilization
of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Actively participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 363-2814
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Khayelitsha Eastern
Sub Structure, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
166
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/232 : TRADESMAN AID (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
experience within the electrical field within a workshop environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel throughout the Western Cape
Province. Physically fit to do manual labour. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate
effectively, both (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after hours’ repairs). Assist with the installation of plant
equipment and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and material are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Willemse Tel No: (021) 918-1894
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/233 : CLEANER
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Matzikama PHC Support & Outreach (stationed at Klawer Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate working experience in cleaning services in a health-related
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to do physical tasks and
operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relationships. Knowledge of correct
methods of handling and disposal of refuse and waste products and adherence
to cleaning practices.
DUTIES : Hygienic and clean environment. Effective management of domestic
responsibilities. Control and supervision of linen. Utilization and maintenance
of consumables. Rendering of support to supervisor. Waste management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AJ Meyer Tel No: (027) 216-1216
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/234 : PORTER (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate Porter/mortuary experience in a public health facility. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including nightshift,
weekends and Public Holidays. Willingness to handle corpses (deceased
bodies). Willingness to work overtime when required. Must be of sober habits,
physically fit to lift oxygen/patients/corpse from/onto beds, trolleys, vehicles,
wheelchairs and heavy equipment. Willingness to cover shifts in absence of
colleagues. Prepared to work in all departments /wards in hospital and
Heideveld EC Hub. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
167
communication skills. Knowledge of safe infection prevention methods. Ability
to work under pressure, unsupervised, and in a team context.
DUTIES : Deliver specimens to laboratories and ensure a safe and hygienic work
environment. Check and replace gas cylinders in wards/Oxygen
bank/treatment areas and assist with shifting of medical equipment to and from
rooms. Accompany walking patients and transport sitting/non-walking patients
per trolley or wheelchair between wards and treatment areas. -Take
responsibility for the transportation of corpses from wards to the mortuary and
perform relevant duties in the mortuary which include mortuary registers. Safe
transport of patients on trolleys and wheelchairs to and from different
departments/wards and assist with loading of patients in/out of
ambulances/vehicles. -Responsible for the cleanliness of trolleys, wheelchairs,
and working areas and report any defects to trolleys/wheelchairs to the
supervisor and reply to requests from wards/clinics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Pedro Tel No: (021) 377-4327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
POST 41/235 : PORTER
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, including nightshift, weekends, overtime and public holidays. The ability
to perform tasks such as lifting patient’s from/onto beds, trolleys and
wheelchairs. Prepared to handle corpses and be in good health. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge of Infection Prevention Control procedure.
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Willingness to work in a team.
DUTIES : To transport patients to and from departments, including mortuary services as
well as deliver and collecting medical and other documentation (patient files,
report, etc) to or from wards or treatment areas. Deliver specimens to
laboratories and ensure a safe and hygienic work environment. Render support
services to clinical staff, colleagues and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Snell Tel No: (027) 213-2038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 November 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
168
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/236 : PROGRAMME MANAGER: PROGRAMME/ PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
DELIVERY: EDUCATION (CHIEF ENGINEER/ CHIEF ARCHITECT/ CHIEF
QUANTITY SURVEYOR/ CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER)
REF NO: DOI 144/2025
SALARY : Chief Engineer - Grade A, All-inclusive salary package of R1 266 450 per
annum (OSD as prescribed); Chief Construction Project Manager – Grade A,
All-inclusive salary package of R1 266 450 per annum (OSD as
prescribed);Chief Architect – Grade A, All-inclusive salary package of R1 099
488 per annum (OSD as prescribed); Chief Quantity Surveyor – Grade A, All-
inclusive salary package of R1 099 488 per annum (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification; Six years post
qualification experience required as a registered professional Engineer;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid driving
licence. Or B-Degree in Architecture or relevant qualification; A minimum of 6
years post qualification architectural experience; Compulsory registration with
SACAP as a professional Architect; A valid driving licence. Or B-Degree in
Quantity Surveying or relevant Qualification; Six years post qualification
Quantity Survey experience required; Compulsory registration with SACQSP
as a professional Quantity Surveyor; A valid driving licence. Or BTech or higher
qualification (Built Environment field) with a certificate in Project Management
as recognised by SACPCMP; A minimum of 6 years’ experience as a registered
Professional Construction Project Manager with the SACPCMP; Compulsory
registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional Construction Project
Manager on appointment; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following: Contract documentation and administration;
Relevant built environment legislation including Occupational Health and
Safety (OHS-Act), National Building Regulations, SANS 10400; Programme
and Project Management; Research and planning procedures for projects;
Financial Management; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Proven
computer literacy; Leadership, teamwork and organising skills; Conflict
Management skills and the ability to work under pressure and meet strict
deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage professional in-house project teams and relevant committees for a
particular project or group of projects; Manage the procurement process of
projects; Monitor, control and report on project/programme implementation;
Development, interpretation and customisation of policies, strategies, plans,
procedures and criteria of all infrastructure programmes and projects; Identify
and extract information to assist client departments with the drafting of their
user asset management plan; Research and study literature to keep abreast
of new technologies and procedures, including interaction with professional
councils, boards and organisations; Assisting technical staff to achieve the pre-
determined performance indicators and service delivery imperatives;
Management of framework, term service and consultant agreements including
appointments, management, payment processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Potgieter Tel No: (021) 438 4881 / 071 555 6901
POST 41/237 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD
PROGRAMME DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 78/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Engineering Degree [B Eng/BSc (Eng)] or relevant qualification;
Three years post qualification engineering experience required; Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a professional engineer; A valid code B driving
licence. Competencies: Technical knowledge as follows: Programme and
Project Management; Engineering design and analysis; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Knowledge of legal
compliance and formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional
environment; Knowledge of public sector procurement; Technical report writing;
169
Creating high performance culture; Professional judgement; Networking;
Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical skills; Creativity; Self-
management; Financial Management; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Communication; Proven computer literacy (MS Office);Planning and
organizing; Conflict Management; Problem solving and analysis; People
Management; Change Management; Innovation; Willingness to travel on a
regular basis; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects; Develop cost effective solutions according to standards; Evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology; Develop tender specifications; Ensure through evaluation that
planning and design by others is done according to sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice; Approve
engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards; Human
capital development: Ensure training and development of technicians,
technologists and candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer
and adherence to sound engineering principles and code of practice; Supervise
the engineering work and processes; Administer performance management
and development; Office administration and budget planning: Manage
resources and prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource
utilization; Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement
and personnel administration; Monitor and control expenditure; Report on
expenditure and service delivery; Research and development: Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve expertise;
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters; The
following will be advantageous: B Eng/BSc in all Engineering fields will be
considered with relevant work experience; Exposure of asset management
principles, technical methods, financials, systems and techniques; Experience
in the implementation of strategies and policies related to the management of
road infrastructure; Exposure of human resource, supply chain and contract
management; Experience in financial motivation or project preparation for
funding requirements; Advance experience in the use of Microsoft Office, Asset
Management systems, GIS and other software /databases programs HDM4,
dTIMS, IQMS; Further studies or courses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A November Tel No: (021) 483 0536
POST 41/238 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (SPECIALISED PRODUCTION) REF NO: DOI
146/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R498 816 - R690 237 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Honours Degree in Environmental or related fields; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Integrated environmental management; Law reform and formulation of policy;
Undertaking/review of environmental impact assessment applications and
related integrated environmental management instruments, including relevant
legislation; Good communication (written and verbal) skills; Development and
practical implementation of environmental policies, guidelines, norms and
standards; General Project Management; Balanced environmental knowledge
including biophysical knowledge of the functioning of ecosystems, interactions
and other environmental aspects; Development and practical implementation
of environmental policies, guidelines, norms and standards.
DUTIES : Review of environmental impact assessment applications and related
documentation in terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Provide
advice, support and comments regarding environmental impact assessment
and related regulatory and substantive requirements, including to
Municipalities, other organs of state and members of the public in terms of
integrated environmental management; To support the Programme to develop
and maintain environmental impact assessment and related policies,
guidelines, norms and standards; To support the Programme to development
and/or implement projects related to integrated environmental management;
Promote and maintain intergovernmental relations and cooperative
governance efforts and initiatives, including representing the Directorate, Chief
Directorate, Department or Province on various Intergovernmental Relations
(IGR) forums; Working and providing a service to the public and maintain good
170
relationships with the public and other external stakeholders, including
representing the Directorate, Chief Directorate, Department or Province on
various forums; The following will have advantageous: Relevant experience in
the following: Undertaking or review of EIA applications, applicable to Roads,
or Road furniture and related assets, example Borrowpits or Structures;
Environmental awareness raising or advising, applicable to Roads, or Road
furniture and related assets, example Borrowpits or Structures; Registered with
EAPASA as a Candidate EAP or as an EAP; Working knowledge of the
following: Environmental management systems; Integrated Environmental
Management, including applicable legislation and policies; Methodologies and
techniques for evaluation of environmental impact assessments,
environmental management plans, as well as environmental monitoring and
auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A November Tel No: (021) 483 0536
POST 41/239 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
ENGINEERING SERVICES (HEALTH AND EDUCATION
INFRASTRUCTURE) REF NO: DOI 20/2025 R2 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 - R418 332 per annum
Grade B: R442 389 - R473 778 per annum
Grade C: R498 816 - R586 665 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Electrical Engineering or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (Engineering) experience; A valid code B driving
licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project
Management knowledge and experience: Technical design and analysis
knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering;
AutoCAD drawing; Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report writing;
Technical consulting; Generic: Problem solving and analysis; Decision making;
Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication;
Computer skills; People Management; Planning and Organising; Change
Management; Good analytical, interpersonal and organisational skills; Good
verbal and written communication skills; Computer literacy (MS Project, Word,
Excel, and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Render technical services; Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshop, and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and review
and or produce technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation
and approval by the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related
functions; Provide input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and
submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets; Research and development; Continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise and liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Haupt Ian.Haupt@westerncape.gov.za
POST 41/240 : ARTISAN FOREMAN (GRADE A): ROAD SIGNS FACTORY (BELLVILLE
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP) REF NO: DOI 141/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Sheet Metal or Fabrication; A minimum of
5 years post qualification experience as an Artisan; A valid Code B (or higher)
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical analysis
and Legal Compliance; Technical report writing; Team leadership; Computer-
aided technical applications; Production, process knowledge and skills;
Problem solving and analysis; Skills needed: Decision making; Teamwork;
Analytical skills; Creativity; Self-management; Customer focus and
171
responsiveness; Planning and organising; Proven computer literacy; Conflict
Management; Communication (Written and verbal).
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability; Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment according to job specification and recognised standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects; Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults; repair equipment and facilities according to
standards; Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications;
service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule; Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities; Perform administrative
related functions: Compile and submit reports; update register of maintained
and repaired faults; Obtain quotations and purchase (order) required
equipment and materials; provide inputs to the operational plan; Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; The following will have advantageous: Work
experience in a Sign manufacturing environment, or other steel manufacturing
related environment; Understanding of production and optimisation of a
production line will be beneficial.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Marilise van Wyngaardt Tel No: (021) 959 7700
POST 41/241 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE
(MECHANICAL) REF NO: DOI 143/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent; or N3 certificate (or higher)
and a passed trade test in the mechanical environment; or Registration as a
Mechanical Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Facets of the construction
industry and National Building Regulations; Latest SANS 1238:2005, 1287-
1:2007, 1287-2:2007, 1424:2013, 10173:2003, 1744:2017 and SANS 10142
[Electrical wiring code], compilation of specifications and tender regulations.
Skills needed: Computer literacy; Technical report writing; Communication
(written and verbal) at project management level; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Quality Management; Scope Change Management; Conflict
Management; Problem solving and analysis; Planning and organising;
Contract Management; Ability to work well within a team.
DUTIES : Deliver infrastructure maintenance, upgrading and minor new work of
Education Facilities; Project management and administration in respect of
scheduled and unscheduled maintenance works, executed by contractors;
Manage the activities of contractors on construction sites, and exercise quality
control on projects; Preparation of tender documentation, specifications, and
Bills of Quantities, analyse and compile; Project documentation; Budget
preparation and estimates of costs for proposed maintenance repair works;
The assessment, preparation, compilation and submission of facility condition
reports of Health and Education Facilities; Maintain and report progress
consistently to the department management information system and back up
documents and information to the database; It will be advantageous to have
appropriate experience in the following: Mechanical environment and contract
administration with regards to the installation and maintenance of lifts, air-
conditioning, refrigeration, fire-fighting equipment, fire alarms, pumps, and
stand-by generators; Preparation of specifications, plans and working drawings
and the ability to interpret Bills of Quantities; Technical experience of
mechanical matters, familiar with contract administration, Occupational Health
and Safety Act and relevant regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Y Jacob Tel No: (021) 483-8514/ email: Yusuf.Jacob@westerncape.gov.za
POST 41/242 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE
(BUILDING) REF NO: DOI 145/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent; or N3 certificate (or higher)
and a passed trade test in the building industry; or Registration as an
Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience; A valid
code B drivers licence. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the
172
following: Facets of the construction industry and National Building
Regulations; Construction regulations within the Occupational Health and
Safety Act; Skills needed: Computer literacy (MS Office: Word & Excel); Report
writing; Excellent communication skills at project management level (verbal
and written).
DUTIES : Responsible for delivery of infrastructure maintenance, upgrading and minor
new works; Ensure that project management and administrative principles are
applied to each project; Liaison with external service providers; Responsible
for PERMIS, mentorship and development; Ensure socio-economic impact is
maintained; Ensure that Facility Condition Assessments (FCAs), as per
Government Immovable Assets Management Act (No.19 of 2007) are delivered
consistently. Experience in the following will be advantageous: Preparation of
specifications, plans and working drawings; Interpreting of Bill of Quantities
(BOQ); Technical experience in the following: Building contracts and contract
administration; Occupational health and safety act and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Nugent at email: daniel.nugent@westerncape.gov.za
POST 41/243 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: GENERAL INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI
142/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year administrative experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Project management systems; Information
management; BAS or similar system; eWorks or similar system; MyContent or
similar system. Skills needed: Proven computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Organising; Planning; Report writing; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support services; Ensure and advise on the effective
flow of information, documents and communications to and from the office of
the senior manager; Draft, collect and compile documents as required; Provide
support to the senior manager with the administration of the budget; Process
payments and other claims; Collect, analyse and collate information and
compile reports; Analyse the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts, policies, procedures, delegations and other documents; Remain up
to date with these to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Campbell Tel No: (021) 483 8868
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/244 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): MUNICIPAL
INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: LG 35/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(3 Year Contract Period)
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSc (Eng)) or relevant qualification in Civil
Engineering; Three years post-qualification experience in civil or municipal
173
engineering; Compulsory registration with ECSA as a professional engineer; A
valid code B (or higher) driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Oversee and manage DLG grants in terms of the Transfer Payment
Agreements; Collect and file progress and close-out reports; Manage the roll-
over process and return of funds in case of savings, under expenditure and
non-approval of roll-over applications; Engineering principles and practices
applicable to municipal infrastructure; Public sector infrastructure delivery
systems and project lifecycle management; Legislation and frameworks:
MFMA, DORA, MSA, SANS, ECSA Code of Conduct; Infrastructure grant
funding mechanisms and planning tools. Skills in the following: Project and
programme management; Analytical thinking and problem-solving;
Communication (written and verbal); Report writing and technical presentation;
Stakeholder engagement and negotiation; Planning, organising, and attention
to detail.
DUTIES : Provide engineering support to municipalities in planning, designing, and
delivering infrastructure projects; Evaluate municipal business plans, budgets,
and project proposals to ensure alignment with strategic frameworks and
sector master plans; Conduct cash flow credibility checks and assist
municipalities with procurement alignment. Undertake quality assurance
reviews and technical site inspections to ensure compliance with specifications
and standards; Support municipalities in the development and review of
Infrastructure Asset Management Plans (IAMPs) and long-term infrastructure
planning; Draft technical reports, steering committee inputs, and submissions
to executive and intergovernmental stakeholders; Contribute to programme
coordination forums and support transversal infrastructure initiatives and water
resilience projects; Investigate consumer complaints and prepare, monitor and
report back on implementation plans to rectify the concern. Conduct Diagnostic
assessments and prepare, monitor and report back on Section 154 support
plans and Financial Recovery Plans (FRPs). Provide hands-on support to
municipalities in case of secondment/deployment to municipalities. Assist with
the preparation of status of municipalities reports and prepare Parliamentary
requests.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Brand Tel No: (021) 483 2856
POST 41/245 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICES REF NO: LG
34/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(3 Year Contract Period)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Fire Technology or Disaster Management; A minimum of 3
years relevant experience; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Fire
operations, Command and Control, Fire safety and awareness and inspection
programs; Department’s financial directives and instructions (PFMA);
Procurement requirements; Human Resource Management; Budgeting
procedures; Expenditure control; Relevant acts and legislation; Written and
verbal communication skills; Project Management and Crisis Management
skills.
DUTIES : Provides leadership for developing, implementing, and evaluating activities
intended to prevent or reduce the negative consequences of fire and improve
life safety of citizens; Provide technical guidance and assistance to Local
Government Fire & Rescue Services to improve fire prevention, protection, and
life safety of citizens; Develop and maintain cooperative agreements between
Local Government, Designated services, and other fire agencies; Determines
fire prevention, protection and life safety priorities, goals, and objectives and
the subsequent strategies and methods and monitors interventions
appropriately; Develops new or proposed plans, policies, procedures, and
guidelines and makes recommendations on the need for new or modified
policies regarding fire prevention, protection, and life safety; Provides
information about fire service prevention, protection and life safety
interventions and capabilities and performs Category of Authorized Persons
investigations; Maintain specialized workgroups and assist with maintenance
of fire protection associations to enhance fire prevention, protection and life
safety initiatives; Co-ordinate training programmes and information sessions to
174
enhance fire prevention, protection, and life safety interventions; Evaluates the
effectiveness of public fire prevention, protection and life safety programmes
by collecting and analysing relevant data and statistics; Co-ordinate and
network as appropriate with counterparts in adjoining jurisdictions and with
officials at the regional, provincial and national levels; Coordinates and
prepares a variety of plans, project plans, budgets, reports, presentations, and
records; Participates in continuing education programmes, conferences,
seminars to strengthen then individual knowledge and skills; It will be
advantageous to have exposure in a fire disaster environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Du Toit Tel No: (021) 937 6357 / 073 995 1609.
POST 41/246 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSURANCE SERVICES REF NO: LG 37/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years' relevant experience in an internal control, governance or audit
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy Development;
Budgeting processes; Financial norms and standards; Public Service Anti-
Corruption Strategy and Fraud Prevention Measures; Principles and Practices
of Financial Accounting; Internal Control tools and techniques; Government
Accounting Standards (GRAP); Economic Reporting Framework including
Standards Charts of Accounts; Risk Management Framework; Government
financial systems; Human Resource Management. Skills in the following:
Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Budgeting skills; Communication (written
and verbal); Computer Literacy; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and
implement policy; Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
Presentation; Problem Solving. It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code
B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise staff rendering assurance services; Perform managerial
and supervisory tasks; Evaluate the effectiveness of financial prescripts
(inspections); Ensure implementation of corrective measures and preventative
controls with regard to CGRO, GAP and FMCMM; Manage and co-ordinate
financial/non-financial responses for the department in respect of Internal
Audit, external audit and FIU/SIU/ERM; Facilitate and co-ordinate responses
for SCOPA, Enterprise Risk Management Committee, Internal Control Forum
and Public Service Commission; Maintain financial information and knowledge
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Solomons Tel No: (021) 483 4566
POST 41/247 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER: REGION B WEST COAST
(VREDENDAL NORTH) REF NO: LG 36/2025
SALARY : R269 499 - R317 463 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); Proof of voluntary
work. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies,
legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices in the public
services; Composition of communities in the Western Cape and their
functioning; Facilitating skills to public participation in policy making and service
delivery; The following skills: Project organisation, interpersonal, report writing
and reporting; Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Self-management and
adherence to timelines; Written and verbal communication skills. It will be
advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Inform and assist communities in Western Cape with access to services
provided by government structures; Determine the needs of communities and
communicate it to the relevant structures; Promote networks and enhance the
activities of existing local community workers aimed at improved service
delivery; Compile reports and documents on progress, issues attended to,
actions taken and outcomes as required; Keep up to date with regard to all
services rendered by government and the processes and mechanisms to
access the services; The following will be advantageous: Community
Development Learnership Certificate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bell Tel No: (021) 483 3039
175
POST 41/248 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER: METRO 2 (DU NOON) REF NO:
LG 38/2025
SALARY : R269 499 - R317 463 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); Proof of voluntary
work. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies,
legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices in the public
services; Composition of communities in the Western Cape and their
functioning; Facilitating skills to public participation in policy making and service
delivery; The following skills: Project organisation, interpersonal, report writing
and reporting; Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Self-management and
adherence to timelines; Written and verbal communication skills. It will be
advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Inform and assist communities in Western Cape with access to services
provided by government structures; Determine the needs of communities and
communicate it to the relevant structures; Promote networks and enhance the
activities of existing local community workers aimed at improved service
delivery; Compile reports and documents on progress, issues attended to,
actions taken and outcomes as required; Keep up to date with regard to all
services rendered by government and the processes and mechanisms to
access the services; The following will be advantageous: Community
Development Learnership Certificate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bell Tel No: (021) 483 3039
POST 41/249 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: LG 33/2025
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Supply chain management duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics;
Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Work procedures in terms
of the working environment; Public Service financial legislations, processes
and procedures, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions; Basic operating systems such as LOGIS, EPS or similar systems.
Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Interpersonal
relations; Flexibility; Accuracy; Planning and organising; Numeracy skills;
Problem Solving; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide an efficient and effective Bid administration support; Provide efficient
and effective Electronic Procurement Solution (EPS) support; Render contract
management support; Render logistical support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Cornelius Tel No: (021) 483 0659
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
176
OTHER POST
POST 41/250 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: NATIS TRAINING REF NO: WCMD 26/2024
R2
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant administrative and
training/teaching or relevant experience; A valid code B or higher driving
license, or alternative mode of transport for people with disabilities.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: National Road Traffic Act, 1996
(Act 93 of 1996) and the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; National and
Provincial NaTIS Security Policy; National Traffic Information System (NaTIS).
Skills in the following: Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Language skills; Project
Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis; Presentation; Legal Administration; Proven Facilitation
skills; People Management.
DUTIES : Supervise and coordinate the activities relating to NaTIS training; Facilitate
training for NaTIS users in the Western Cape; Supervise all the activities
relating to the auditing of NaTIS transactions and other key tasks performed by
internal NaTIS users; Supervisory functions; It will be advantageous to have a
Certificate in Occupationally Directed Education Training and Development
Practices (ODETD) or Education and Training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BD Ellie Tel No: (021) 483 2828
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/251 : POLICY AND STRATEGY ANALYST REF NO: DOTP 81/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate post graduate qualification in Economics, Social Sciences,
Public Policy, Law, Planning, Built environment or related field; A minimum of 6
years’ experience within a research environment and/or a policy development
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Latest advances in
public management theory and practice; Public policy analysis and public
policy development processes; Strategy development, strategy management
and strategy monitoring and review processes; Latest trends in public sector
innovation and innovative methodologies; Modern systems of governance and
administration; Global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs
impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional,
legal and institutional arrangements governing the South Africa public sector;
Inter-governmental and international relations; National, provincial and
strategies – NDP, MTDP, PSP, IDPs. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and
as part of a team; Communication skills (written and verbal); Strong conceptual
and formulation; Strong leadership skills with specific reference to ability to
display leadership in complex applications; Strong written and verbal
communication; Team building and strong inter-personal; Outstanding
177
planning, organising and people management; Excellent presentation, public
speaking and facilitation skills at senior management level; Strong project
management skills and must be detail orientated; The ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers.
DUTIES : Research and analyse the provincial policy environment; Identify critical areas
for provincial government intervention; Develop multi-functional policy and
strategic responses; Initiate the development of appropriate, integrated, and
multi-disciplinary government programmes (cluster-based and transversal to
clusters); Support strategic provincial structures with appropriate policy
formulation and decision-making methodology and support systems; Provide
strategic support to the policy agenda of key strategic public and private
partners; Supervision of operational planning and work organisation of the unit;
Manage staff of the unit; Financial management of the unit; It will be
advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Görgens Tel No: (021) 483 3082
POST 41/252 : ICT TEAM LEADER (IT GOVERNANCE): IT PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOTP 39/2025 R2
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Technology or Information Systems; A minimum of
3 years middle management experience within IT Governance, ICT
environment or similar environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Department of the Public Service and Administration ICT policies,
viz. Corporate Governance of ICT Directive and Policy, Cloud Directive and
Information Security Directive; IT Governance and Architecture frameworks
and standards; Supply Chain Management; Budgeting and Cash Flow; Human
Resource Management practices; Applicable legislation such as the PFMA,
Public Service Act and Regulations, SITA Act and Regulations, Access to
Information Act, Telecommunications Act, POPI Act, Electronic
Communications and Transactions Act. Skills Needed: Computer literacy;
Communication (written and verbal); Research and technical writing;
Innovative problem solving; Analytical capability; Strategic thinking and
planning; Project management; Presentation; Conflict resolution; Negotiation;
Interpersonal; Budgeting; Training.
DUTIES : IT Governance: Develop and maintain an IT Governance system or policy and
provide IT Governance consultation services to improve the overall IT
Governance Maturity; Governance Frameworks: Lead the development and
implementation of IT governance frameworks that align with our business
goals, ensuring robust and scalable IT architecture; Ensure the monitoring and
evaluation of ICT governance performance and report to various governance
structures; IT Audit and Compliance: Co-ordinate IT audits and ensure
compliance with national, provincial IT directives, norms and standards; Risk
Management: Manage or contribute to ICT-related risks, ensuring that they are
communicated to relevant governance structures and that appropriate risk
mitigation strategies are in place; Change Management and Collaboration:
Work closely with various departments and cross cutting IT teams, including
senior leadership to influence and drive key decisions that shape our IT
landscape; It will be advantageous to have experience in the following: Medium
to enterprise organisation; Supervisory role in an ICT environment or digital
transformation in the public or private sector; Architecture Assurance:
Oversees and guide the enterprise architecture practices in alignment to
architecture frameworks. A valid driving license (Code B or higher). NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Mohamed Tel No: (021) 483 4828
POST 41/253 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT (CE-I) REF NO:
DOTP 88/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
178
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 5 years’ experience in procurement, financial
management or people management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Policy development; Procurement legislation and practices; Budget
process and finance practises; National and Provincial legislation and
instruments pertaining to financial management and procurement; Human
resource management policies and procedures. Skills needed: Analytical
thinking, project management, audit, risk management, monitoring and
evaluation; Procurement and supply chain processes skills; Budgeting,
reporting, stakeholder engagement skills; Conflict resolution, facilitation and
problem-solving.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise staff regarding the following functions and perform
tasks in relation to: Track the programmes budget management and
procurement; Render financial, budget and contract management support
services; Render and perform office administration support services; Render
logistical support to management and forums; Participate in recruitment and
selection; Motivate, train and guide staff; Determine workflow requirements,
allocate duties and monitor outcomes and manage staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Robertson Tel No: (021) 483 2933
POST 41/254 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOTP 91/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Public
Finance, B.Com or Internal Auditing; A minimum of 3 years supervisory
experience in the asset management environment, warehouse management,
inventory management or financial management; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA); Supply Chain Management Prescripts; Financial
Accounting; Asset Management framework. Skills needed: Computer literacy
in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, outlook etc.); Ability to work
independently and as part of a team; Communication (written and verbal);
Client and goal oriented; Numeracy; Project planning and Problem solving;
LOGIS system (Asset Management sections) or any Other Asset or Inventory
Management system.
DUTIES : Oversee the daily operations of the unit; Analyse data and perform
reconciliations; Provide input to the Interim and Annual Financial Statements;
Oversee asset related projects (e.g Stocktake, Disposals etc.); Draft circulars,
Standard Operating Procedures and Policies; Perform asset management
presentations and attend to internal and external queries; Fulfil supervisory
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Nell Tel No: (021) 483 0174
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 41/255 : ECONOMIST: LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET OFFICE REF NO: PT
36/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
179
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree (or equivalent qualification) in Economics, Finance, Business
or Public Administration or Public Policy; A minimum of 6 years’ experience in
research in the relevant fields; A valid driving license (Code B or higher). Note:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access
to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge in the following:
Micro/macro-economic theory and interpretation and economic analysis of key
data sets; Municipal Finance Management Act, other relevant legislation and
policies applicable to local government; Ability to understand and communicate
findings from rigorous quantitative research; Written and verbal communication
skills; Research, analytics, writing, monitoring, evaluation and reporting skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage the Local Government Budget Assessment processes
with other key stakeholder department to improve the conformance,
responsiveness, credibility and sustainability of municipal budgets; Assess,
advise and monitor municipal Service Delivery Budget Implementation Plans
(SDBIP’s) in line with national guidelines, municipal quarterly, mid-year and
annual non-financial information/ performance reports and provide feedback to
municipalities; Conduct and publish economic and socio-economic analysis
through the Municipal Economic Review and Outlook (MERO) publication and
Socio-economic Profiles for Local Government (SEP-LG) to inform municipal
budget policies and the budget allocation process; Collaborate with other
Provincial Departments; Plan and manage the work of and account for the
overall performance of the Sub directorate; Financial Management; People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Rasool Tel No: (021) 483 8992
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 41/256 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REF NO: DSD
90/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS FACILITIES)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R559 548 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R583 989 – R723 954 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Basic R425 qualification (Diploma/ Degree in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse;
Compulsory registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse; No
experience required. Grade 2: Basic R425 qualification (Diploma/ Degree in
Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse; Compulsory registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse; A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Nursing care processes and
procedures; Nursing statutes and any other relevant legal frameworks such as:
Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights
Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act. Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer
literacy; Report writing; Facilitation; Co-ordination-, liaison- and networking;
Problem solving; Information- and knowledge management; Planning and
organising.
180
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality care to residents); Implement standards, practices,
criteria and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice); Practice nursing
and health care in accordance with the prescripts and regulations relevant to
nursing and health care; Maintain a constructive working relationship with
nursing MDT members and other stakeholders; Utilise human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively; It will be advantageous to have a
mental health qualification(advanced psychiatry).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Benting Tel No: (021) 986 9100
POST 41/257 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (CEDERBERG)
REF NO: DSD 33/2024 R2
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 - Grade 3: R339 438 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD).
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Good communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Report writing skills;
Problem solving and analytical skills; Client orientation and customer focus
skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J du Toit Tel No: (022) 713 2272
POST 41/258 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
91/2024 R1 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE WINELANDS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 438 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work. Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mtlaka Tel No: (021) 872 7818
181