PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 26 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 25 JULY 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS
EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KZN: PROVINCIAL TREASURY: Kindly note that
the following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated 18 July
2025, The post title has been amended as follows, Deputy Director: Provincial Financial
Reporting Ref No: KZNPT 25/33 to Deputy Director: Inter-governmental Relations Ref
No: KZNPT 25/33. The closing date has been extended to 08 August 2025
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE A 03 - 09
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 10 - 46
HEALTH C 47 - 48
HOME AFFAIRS D 49 - 50
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE E 51 - 53
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 54 - 67
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY G 68 - 80
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE H 81 - 86
TRANSPORT I 87 - 88
WATER AND SANITATION J 89 - 91
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE K 92 - 93
GAUTENG L 94 - 96
MPUMALANGA M 97 - 111
NORTHERN CAPE N 112 - 115
NORTH WEST O 116 - 123
WESTERN CAPE P 124 - 157
2
ANNEXURE A
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service is an equal opportunity, and gender sensitive employer and it
is the intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Secretariat for Police Service is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
employment.
APPLICATIONS : must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivered or couriered to 258 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street, Fedsure
Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk. No late applications will be
accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z.83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating positions
held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interviews following communication from the Department. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the
candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Please note that all applicants for Senior Management positions
are required to complete the SMS Pre- Entry Programme administered by the
National School of Government (NSG) and submit the certificate prior to
appointment. The Course is available at NSG under the name Certificate for
entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link
https://thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-programme. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job. Following the interview process, recommended
candidate (s) to attend to generic SMS competency assessment as mandated
by DPSA. The logistics of which will be communicated by the Department.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a security clearance. The Civilian
Secretariat for Police Service has the right not to fill the post. Preference will
be given to youth, people with disability and women in accordance with our
employment equity plan. The successful candidates will be based in Pretoria
and will frequently travel to Cape Town when Parliament is in session.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/01 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: OVERSIGHT MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF
NO: CSP/03/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Public Administration/ Social Sciences or Development
Studies (NQF 7) or relevant equivalent qualification. 5 years’ Senior Managerial
level experience. Understanding of monitoring and evaluation strategies,
policies and procedures. Monitoring methodologies, Monitoring and evaluation
methods, extensive knowledge and experience in monitoring and evaluation
tools and systems. Understanding of Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act,
South Africa Police Service Act, Public Service Act, Public Finance
Management Act, and SMS Handbook. Computer literacy, project
management, problem solving and decision making skills. Verbal and written
communication skills. Strategic Capability and Leadership, planning and
organising, presentation, and facilitation skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and support to the Secretary for Police to ensure
that the Civilian Secretariat for Police Act, 2011 is properly implemented.
Advise the Secretary for Police Service on the constitutional and other statutory
powers and responsibilities of the Minister of Police. Give strategic advice to
the Secretary for Police Service in respect of oversight monitoring and
evaluation that is constitutional and policy compliant. Ensure development and
3
management of strategies to monitor performance of Police services. Provide
direction and guidance on the monitoring of policing legislation and policies to
improve service delivery. Provide strategy on the analysis of the performance
of police in relation to the departmental strategic plan, budget utilisation and
the Ministerial priorities. Manage the oversight monitoring and evaluation of
police compliance to policies and legislations. Provide guidance on monitoring
SAPS compliance with legislation, policing policies and Ministerial directives.
Manage reporting on SAPS implementation and compliance with the Domestic
Violence Act to Parliament. Establish and manage relationship with relevant
stakeholders such as Civil Society, SAPS and other government Department.
Manage the oversight monitoring and evaluation of the police conduct and
transformation. Manage the development of strategies to monitor police
conduct. Provide leadership on the awareness for compliance with developed
legislation. Manage the assessment of civil claims and disciplinary
management services. Ensure development of strategies, processes and
procedures for evaluating SAPS programs. Manage coordination of monitoring
and evaluation projects conducted with provinces. Conduct risk assessment,
develop mitigating strategies and mitigate risks. Management of Resources
(Human and financial).
ENQUIRIES : Mr BK Shiphamele Tel No: (012) 4931 388
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment22@csp.gov.za
POST 26/02 : DIRECTOR: LEGISLATION REF NO: CSP/04/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or Bachelor’s Degree in Law (NQF 7) or relevant legislation
drafting equivalent qualification. 5 years’ middle management/Senior
Managerial level experience that must include legislative drafting. Extensive
knowledge and experience in legislative drafting, a sound knowledge of and
interpretation of constitutional law. Understanding of legislation research and
development methodologies, analysis methods, research methodologies,
monitoring and evaluation methods and Legislation formulation. Knowledge of
good governance and Batho Pele Principles. Understanding of government
systems and structures. Strategic capability and leadership, programme and
project management, people management and empowerment. Financial
management, change management and computer literacy. Problem solving
and decision-making skills. Verbal and written communication skills.
Legislation development and Legislation research skills. Knowledge of the
Safety and Security Sector will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Identify and develop primary and subordinate legislation relating to the
mandate of the Minister of Police in accordance with approved policy
directives. Perform continuous environmental scanning in order to identify
shortcomings in and possible improvement of legislation pertaining to policing
functions and operations. Conduct legal research, including international legal
research to conduct comparative analysis of legislation. Develop and prepare
draft Bills and Regulations. Actively participate in all legislative processes
leading up to the submission of legislation in Parliament. Review and amend
existing primary and subordinate legislation. Engage with internal and external
research units to source policing assessment/oversight reports for analysis,
engage with provincial secretariats and other relevant institutions to identify
gaps in the policing legal framework. Review of Bills and Regulations
processes leading to the tabling of thereof, advising the Minister in respect of
legislative proposals, prepare and make presentations on departmental
legislation to parliamentary committees and other government fora.
Development of legal instruments for the Secretariat and ensuring that the
relevant legal instruments are complied with. Conduct analysis and research
in preparing legal and constitutional advice for submission to the Secretary of
Police. Consider policy implications that impact on policing legislation and
make recommendations. Draft legal documents on policing that provide a clear
motivation or justification on improvements for policing legislation. Provide
support on Minister’s statutory and constitutional responsibilities. Prepare
documents for the Minister to ensure his statutory and constitutional
responsibilities are executed. Conduct regular risk situation analysis Identify
risk associated with legislation, monitor and evaluate legislation risks, develop
mitigating strategies and execute risk strategy to mitigate risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 4931 388
4
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment42@csp.gov.za
POST 26/03 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF NO: CSP/05/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Public Administration/ Social Sciences or Development
Studies (NQF 7) or relevant equivalent qualification. 5 years of experience at a
middle/ senior managerial level. Understanding of monitoring and evaluation
strategies, policies and procedures. Extensive knowledge and experience in
monitoring and evaluation tools and systems. Sound knowledge of and
interpretation of constitutional law. Knowledge of Civilian Secretariat for Police
Act, SAPS Act, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, SMS
Handbook and community structures. Strategic capability and leadership,
programme and project management. Change management, knowledge
management and computer literacy. Problem solving and analysis. Verbal and
written communication skills. Project management, presentation, planning and
organising skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the development of strategy, tools and guidelines relevant to
compliance monitoring. Manage the development and implementation of
compliance monitoring plan. Review existing information needs for compliance
monitoring. Ensure the development of information management system.
Provide guidance on monitoring SAPS compliance with legislation, policing
policies and Ministerial directives. Provide direction in the development of
improvement plan to address non-compliance with legislation and policies.
Manage the police compliance through oversight monitoring and evaluation
(OME). Ensure development and management of strategies to monitor SAPS’s
compliance to legislation and policies. Provide guidance on the monitoring of
implementation of policing legislation and policies to improve service delivery.
Provide strategic guidance on compliance of the police in relation to policies
and legislation relevant to GBV and other Ministers priorities. Conduct
oversight on the police focusing on policing policies and legislation. Manage
and enhance police compliance through oversight monitoring and evaluation.
Manage the development of strategy, tools and guidelines relevant to
compliance monitoring. Manage consolidation of complex report on SAPS
implementation and compliance with the Domestic Violence Act (DVA) to
Parliament. Establish and manage Forums with SAPS to improve compliance
with the DVA. Provide direction in the development of improvement plan to
address non-compliance with the DVA. Manage and assess compliance level
to policing policies by SAPS. Establish and manage relationship with relevant
external stakeholders such as Civil Society, SAPS, Justice and other
government departments. Establish and manage relationships with relevant
internal stakeholders. Provide appropriate and timeous reports with
recommendations. Coordinate and manage the implementation of special
projects. Management of resources (Financial and Physical).
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 4931 388
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment42@csp.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EVALUATIONS REF: CSP/06/2025
SALARY : R582 444.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Science (Sociology, Criminology, Policing, Criminal
Justice) or Public Administration or Monitoring and Evaluation or Development
Studies or Population Studies. 3-5 years working experience in the Monitoring
and Evaluation field. Understanding of monitoring and evaluation strategies,
policies and procedures. Understanding of Government legislations, Civilian
Secretariat for Police Service Act, South African Police Service Act, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, National
Evaluation Policy Framework and Batho Pele Principles. Computer literacy,
communication skills, presentation and project Management skills. Planning
and organizing, Problem solving and decision making skills. Leadership and
facilitation skills. Drivers licence.
5
DUTIES : Draft the directorate operational plan. Develop Monitoring and Evaluation
project plan and conduct research. Design and develop data collection tools,
guidelines and procedures for evaluating policing policies and programmes.
Review piloted evaluation tools. Collect data at police stations, district and
provincial office as well as SAPS units. Compile oversight M&E reports and
provide feedback and recommendations to the relevant SAPS Commanders.
Provide Secretarial support at M&E Forums and stakeholder meetings.
Maintain a database for evaluation of stakeholders. Participate in the
implementation of special projects identified by the Minister or Secretary for
Police Service. Management of resources (human and financial).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
POST 26/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY OUTREACH PROGRAMME REF
NO: CSP/07/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelors or Degree in Social Science (NQF 6) or relevant equivalent
qualification. 3 years working experience. Understanding of stakeholder
management, Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act and government
policies. Advanced report writing skills, policy implementation and evaluation
process, policy presentation and protocol skills. Knowledge of the Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Regulations, and Public Finance
Management Act. Computer literacy, communication skills, presentation and
project Management skills. Planning and organizing, Problem solving and
decision making skills. Leadership and facilitation skills. Drivers licence.
DUTIES : Provide support in the identification of relevant initiatives to promote crime
prevention. Engage with stakeholders and communities to identify community
safety constraints in various target groups, Source and consolidate information
on community safety constraints and develop community safety programmes
according to identified community safety constraints. Provide support on the
development of plans to implement community safety programs in identified
communities. Develop and review community outreach programmes.
Research comparative community outreach partnership policing theories for
best practice on implemented outreach programmes. Measure impact of
implemented outreach programmes and recommend improved initiatives.
Engage in dialogues and other avenues to source inputs. Coordinate and align
community outreach programmes for implementation in various target groups
to ensure synergy. Manage and update database of relevant stakeholders and
implemented programmes. Provide support on the facilitation of public
participation engagements. Compile draft reports with recommendations for
implemented public participation engagement plans, assist with the co-
ordination of national and provincial events, assist with the sourcing of reports
and recommendations from various communities on the outcome of
implemented community outreach programmes. Consolidate information on
implemented community outreach programmes and compile draft progress
reports. Assist in the research and analysis of performance of unit functions
against plan. Monitor and report on the sub-directorate resources, provide
support on monthly compilation of expenditure budget reporting of costs on
activities and assist in the development of sub-directorate budget tool.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment72@csp.gov.za
POST 26/06 : MONITORING AND EVALUATION OFFICER REF NO: CSP/08/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent qualification. National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Social Science (Policing, Criminology, Criminal Justice, Sociology), Public
Policy, Public Administration, Statistics, Population Studies or Development
Studies. 1 to 2 years’ working experience in the M&E filed. Knowledge of Data
collection and processing, data analysis and information management.
Computer literacy especially using the Microsoft Windows Suite e.g. MS Word,
Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act,
SAPS Act. Public Service Act, the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
National Evaluation Policy Framework and Batho Pele Principles. Planning and
6
organizing, interpersonal and communication skills. Problem solving and
decision making skills. Team leadership, customer service orientation. Maintain
confidentiality and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist in the development of M&E project plan and conduct desktop research.
Assist in the design and development of tools, guidelines and procedures for
monitoring and evaluation of policing policies and programmes. Assist in the
piloting of M&E tools, recommend changes in the review of the tool. Collect
data and source documents at Police Stations, District and Provincial offices
as well as SAPS Units. Capture and analyse data. Compile individual site
reports and provide oversight feedback and recommendations to the relevant
South African Police Service (SAPS) Commanders. Liaise with Provincial
Secretariats and other stakeholders. Assist in the development of an
operational plan for the directorate. Coordinate submission of quarterly reports
and M&E tools to or from Provincial Secretariats. Assist in the coordination of
the National Oversight Forum meetings. Provide Support in the implementation
of special projects identified by the Minister and or Secretary for Police Service.
Management of resources (human and financial). Preference will be given to
youth and people with disability in accordance with our employment equity
plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
POST 26/07 : TRANSPORT OFFICER REF NO: CSP/09/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma in Supply Chain Management /
Logistics / Purchasing Management or Transport Management or relevant
SCM qualifications. Minimum of three (3) year supply chain experience in
Transport Management. Knowledge of PFMA and Treasury-related
legislations, SCM policies and procedures, Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of accounting principles and practices, tax, and the analysis and
reporting of financial data. Knowledge of contract management and leasing
processes. Computer literacy, communication (verbal & written) skills.
Presentation, project management skills. Advanced financial management and
analytical skills. Planning and organising skills. Drivers licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate state owned motor transport. Ensure efficient pool vehicle
utilisation, maintenance and tracking. Keeping the pool vehicles maintenance
schedules. Ensure state vehicles are maintained in a safe and roadworthy
condition (license renewals). Arrange for services and repairs, conduct regular
inspections on vehicles, manage and oversee pre and post vehicle delivery
inspections. Administer and control fuel cards on pool vehicles. Manage traffic
contravention and compile reports. Manage Accident and incident reporting.
Oversee vehicle record keeping. Receive, inspect and reconcile log book.
Keep inventory of parking cards, petrol cards and spare keys. Monthly visits to
the Traffic Department to ensure all speeding fines are paid. Arrange for
payments of fines. Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport
passengers and other items (e.g. Mail and documents). Deliver and collects
official documents as requested. Accurately following routes, maps, and
direction.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment72@csp.gov.za
POST 26/08 : ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: CSP/10/2025
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. Knowledge of clerical duties.
Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Ability to capture data, use computer. Planning and organizing,
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy, confidentiality and
accuracy. Ability to work under pressure and work long hours. Problem analysis
and decision making.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and secretarial support. Devise and maintain office
systems including electronic and hard copy filing systems and data
management. Organise events, meetings, room and facility for the directorate.
Assist in logistical preparation for Directorate's meetings and events as
7
required. Prepare meeting packs for Directorates and timeously distribute to all
participants. Write-up and follow-up on notes and actions from meetings that
Directorates have participated in, prepare correspondence, presentations and
other information as requested by Directorates. Coordinate proper
administration of the staff overtime, claims, leave plans. Perform any other
administrative duties required by Directorates. Arrange travel and
accommodation for the directorate. Assist with the management of deadlines
for individuals within Directorates. Administer incoming and outgoing
mail/documents. Maintain records keeping and filing system. Records flow of
correspondence. Receive and record information request. Compile minutes
and monthly reports. Preference will be given to youth and people with
disability in accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment32@csp.gov.za
POST 26/09 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: CSP/11/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or relevant qualification. Knowledge of clerical duties.
Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Ability to capture data, use computer. Planning and organizing,
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy, confidentiality and
accuracy. Ability to work under pressure and work long hours. Problem analysis
and decision making.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondences and data. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the
component. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the
component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement
forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Keep and maintain the asset
register of the component. Maintain leave register for the component. Keep
and maintain personnel records in the component. Document minutes for the
governance structures within the Unit. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of substance
and travel claims of officials. Perform ad-hoc duties, as may be delegated from
time to time. Preference will be given to youth and people with disability in
accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment82@csp.gov.za
POST 26/10 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: CSP/12/2025
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualifications. The following certificates or
qualifications will be added advantage: Office Administration/ Secretarial
Studies/Business Administration/Public Administration/Customer Service/ or
relevant. Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures. Knowledge of
computers and relevant software applications (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook, MS PowerPoint, etc), customer service principles and practices.
Language skills and the ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Telephone etiquette. Verbal and written
communication skills, professional personal presentation, customer service
orientation, organising and planning. Computer literacy, friendly and
adaptability. Accuracy, ability to work under pressure and work long hours.
DUTIES : Render reception area services. Attend to telephone calls promptly and
courteously. Receiving and directing clients to the relevant officials. Maintain
telephone list and report faulty telephone lines. Keep proper and accurate
details of caller. Update telephone directories for the officials. Manage and
maintain reception area. Administer boardrooms bookings and allocations.
Assist visitors and refer them to relevant staff members. Provide clients with
relevant information. Ensure reception area is tidy and presentable. Maintains
safe and clean reception area. Monitor and maintain office equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 4931 388
8
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment62@csp.gov.za
9
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of a SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicants own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the Department,
following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Please
note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
10
a performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/11 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/58
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Supply Chain
Management/Economics/ Finance/ Financial Management. 5 years’ functional
experience at middle/senior management level in Supply Chain Management
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, policies, procedures
and processes. Customer Service principles (Batho Pele Principles). Technical
knowledge. Fund Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and financial
Management. Understanding of supply chain management policies and
procedures. Understanding of the White paper on the transformation of public
services. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). COIDA.
BBBEE and BBBEE codes. Generally Recognized Accounting practices
(GRAP). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPI). Legislative
requirements: PPPFMA (Preferential Procurement Policy Framework). Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury regulations. Promotion
of Access to Information Act. Protection of Personal Information Act (POPI).
Skills: Technical proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Communication (verbal
and written). Problem Solving and Decision making. People Management and
Empowerment. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Managing inter-
personal conflict. Financial Management. Decision making and problem
solving. Programme management. Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the demand and acquisition processes. Develop manage
and maintain logistical information and supply chain management performance
of the Fund. Provide effective movable assets and liability management
services. Manage all resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/12 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYER SERVICES REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/59
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Accounting/ Finance/ Business.
5 years’ functional experience at middle/senior management level in
underwriting group insurance or employer registration and assessment raising
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, policies, procedures
and processes. Customer Service principles (Batho Pele Principles). Technical
knowledge. Fund Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and financial
Management. COIDA. Relevant Stakeholders. Technical knowledge.
Extensive knowledge and understanding of Treasury Audits. Public Service
Regulations Act. Public Service regulations. Public Service Act. Extensive
knowledge of internal controls and auditing principles. Legislative
requirements: COIDA. Constitution Act of SA. National Treasury Regulation.
Public Finance Management Act (PPFMA). Promotion of Access to Information
Act. Protection of Personal Information Act. Basic Conditions of Employment
Act. Occupational Health and safety Act. Unemployment Insurance Act.
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act. Skills: Strategic leadership.
Technical Proficiency. Business Writing. Communication (verbal and written).
11
Planning and organizing. Problem Solving and decision making. Analytical
thinking. People Management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and
Customer focus. Programme management. Environmental Awareness.
Financial Management.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the registration of employers in accordance with the COID
Act. Manage and monitor the assessment of employers in accordance with the
COID Act. Manage and monitor the employer compliance in accordance with
the COID Act. Manage the operations Directorate. Manage resources within
the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/13 : DIRECTOR: ORTHOTICS AND PROSTHETICS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/60
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Medical Orthotics and
Prosthetics as recognized by SAQA. Post Graduate Diploma in Occupational
Health will be added advantage. Registration with HPCSA. 5 years’ experience
at a middle/ senior management level in a Medical Orthotics and Prosthetics
environment. Knowledge: Relevant stakeholders. Compensation Fund
Services. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Fund Value. Required IT
Knowledge. Fund IT Operating Systems. DPSA guidelines on COIDA.
Technical Knowledge. General knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Public Service Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Employment Equity
Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHA). PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Legislative requirements:
COID Act. National Health Act. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency. Business
Writing Skills. Required IT Skills. Fund IT Operating Systems. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI). Planning and Organizing. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Communication. Work Ethic and Self-management. Risk Management and
Corporate Governance. Medical Skills. Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Develop and design Prosthetic and Orthotic Policy, strategy and processes for
the benefit of COIDA patients. Develop and design prosthetic and orthotic
regulations for the benefits of COIDA patients. Manage, establish and maintain
relationship and protocols with orthotics and prosthetics institution across the
country. Manage, implement and monitor prosthetics devices. Manage the
assistive devices request process. Manage the operations of the Directorate
and resources (Human, Finance and Equipment).
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/14 : DIRECTOR: MEDICAL BILLING AND CLINICAL CODING REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/61
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Accounting/ Finance/
Business Management or (Administration)/ Clinical Qualification/ Information
Technology. 5 years’ technical experience at middle / senior Management level
in Health Insurance/ Medical Aid/ Medical Claims processing environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures and processes.
12
Technical knowledge. Relevant stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Fund Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and Financial
Management. COID procedures and processes. Biology and Medical anatomy.
Legislative Requirements: COIDA. Medical Schemes Act. National Treasury
Regulations. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). White paper on
transformation of public services. Skills: Technical proficiency. Communication
(verbal and written). Managing inter-personal conflict. Change Management.
Strategic planning. Financial Management. Project and programme
management. Problem solving. People and Performance Management.
Analytical thinking. Decision making. Team leadership. Negotiation.
DUTIES : Develop, review policies and procedures for medical Billing, Tariffs and Clinical
Coding. Manage and monitor the administration of medical tariffs services.
Oversee the administration of clinical coding services. Oversee the
administration of Medical Billing procedures. Management of the resources in
the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/15 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS REF NO: HR
4/4/7/41
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Secunda, Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in
Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource Management, Labour
Relations, Social Science (Developmental Studies, Social Work, Nursing
Industrial Psychology/Psychology, Qualifications with Research Economics,
and Statistics as major subjects), Engineering Science (Civil and/or
Construction Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Environmental Health, Analytical Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry,
Explosives Management, Explosives Engineering), Management, Public
Management/Administration, Business Management/Administration,
Operations Management, Project Management, Commerce (General),
Administrative Information Management, Administrative Management,
LLB/BCOM Law/BA Law/B Proc. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) at
an Assistant Director level and three (3) years’ functional experience in labour
market operations / services delivery environment. Valid Driver’s Licence.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Supply
Chain Management processes, Asset Management, All Labour Legislations,
Departmental policies and Procedures, Public Service Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Service Delivery Plan. Skills: Management, Communication (both
verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Conflict Management, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Conflict Management, Change Management, Diversity
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, Leadership and Project
Management.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per the mandate of Department of
Employment and Labour. Represent the Department in key stakeholder
forums including interdepartmental structures of government and
municipalities including those dictated by the District Development Model
(DDM). Implement and manage service delivery improvement plan. Manage all
the resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8702
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni,
1035 or hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner of Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-SCU-DDLCO@LABOUR.gov.za Mkhondo
Labour Centre
FOR ATTENTION : The Chief Director: Provincial Operations
13
POST 26/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BENEFICIARY SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/7/30
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho, Northwest
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (National Diploma NQF6)/ (Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF 7) in Operations Management/Operational
Research/Public Management/ Business Administration/ Public Relations
Administration/ Public Administration /Administration Management/ Finance.
Valid driver’s license. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) must be
functional experience in Unemployment Insurance Operations environment
and two (2) years must be management experience. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulation (PSR), Unemployment Insurance Fund and Contribution
Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Batho Pele Principles, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA),
Employment Equity Act (EEA), Public Service Regulations (PSR). Skills:
Leadership, Management, Report writing (Advance), Computer Literacy, Team
Building, Project management, Analytical, Communication, Innovative/
Creative.
DUTIES : Manage Employer Services functions in the province. Manage assessment,
services and local appeals and complaints, Monitor the provision of Generals
Support and Registry Services. Manage the provision of comprehensive
financial administration in the province. Manage resources in the Sub-
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mhlongo Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 Or
hand delivery to 2nd Floor, Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or
Email: Jobs-NW2@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/17 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT, FRAUD AND
ANTICORRUPTION REF NO: HR4/4/7/51
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF6) in Risk Management/ Auditing or
Accounting or Economics. Valid driver’s licence. Two (2) years Management
experience. Three (3) years functional experience in Risk Management/
Internal Audit. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, Fraud and Corruption Legislative Framework, Internal Auditing,
Risk Management and Corporate Governance, Prevention of Organized Crime
Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Protected Disclosure Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act Skills:
Project Management, Analytical Skills, Communication Skills, Interpersonal
Skills, Problem Solving Skills, Report Writing Skills, Computer Skills (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint), Mentoring and Coaching.
DUTIES : Develop and ensure implementation of Risk Management and Anti-Fraud
Strategy, Develop Plans for risk assessments and conduct awareness
campaigns, Monitor and implement controls to combat fraud and corruption.
Conduct risk research and analysis, Manage all resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8702
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni,
1035 or hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner of Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni Email: Jobs-MPU-RAIM@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : The Chief Director: Provincial Operations.
POST 26/18 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROJECTS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/62
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Business Administration/
Public Administration/ Project Management/ Development Studies/ Information
Technology and certificate in Project Management. 5 years’ functional
experience in Managing projects of which 2 years is at junior management
level, project governance and within PMO, PMU and/or EPMO environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Monitoring
and Evaluation platform. Project management principles and methodologies.
Project management information technologies e.g. PMBOK, MS project etc.
Application of research methodology. COIDA. Customer service (Batho Pele
14
Principles). Technical knowledge. Quality management principles and
processes. Public policy and framework. Legislative Requirements: Public
finance Management Act (PFMA). Public service regulations Act. Public
service regulations. Treasury regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act
(OHS). Promotion of Access to Information Act. Skills: Strategic management.
Programme and project management. Strong analytical skills. Financial
management. Project monitoring and evaluation. Communication Skills (verbal
and written). Conflict management. Decision making. Budgeting and Financial
Management. Knowledge management. Continuous improvement. People and
Performance Management. Diversity Management. Planning and organizing.
Problem solving. Risk Management and Focus Governance. Change
Management.
DUTIES : Manage the integration and delivery of priority projects and programmes for
the Compensation Fund. Manage project deliverables in line with Fund and
Legislative quality standards and expectations. Provide best practice
development and implementation in all projects and programmes. Implement
the strategic and operational plan of the strategic management and programme
office. Manage finances and physical assets within the strategic management
and programme office. Manage resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Khosa at 066 478 0037
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/19 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/63
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Risk Management and
Internal Auditing/ Accounting/Accounting Science. 5 years’ functional
experience in risk or internal audit environment, of which both should be
coupled with experience in improvement of the control environment. 2 of the 5
years should be at a supervisory level. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund regulations, policies and
procedures. Compensation Fund Services. Compensation Fund value chain
and business processes. Customer Service principles (Batho Pele Principles).
Extensive knowledge and understanding of Treasury Audits. Corporate
governance guidelines and the developments of polices and strategies. Risk
assessment. Risk management and audit practices. Knowledge of
investigation methods and techniques. Required information technology
knowledge. Compensation Fund Information technology operating systems.
DPSA guidelines on COIDA. Framework for risk governance. Risk
management compliance. Risk management policies and procedures.
Legislative Requirements: Public finance Management Act (PFMA).
Compensation for occupational injuries and diseases Act (COIDA), regulations
and policies. Public service regulations. Treasury regulations. Supply chain
management prescripts. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS).
Promotion of Access to Information Act. PAJA. Constitution Act 108 of 1996
(amended). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). LRA, EE Act, SDA & BCEA.
Skills: Strategic leadership and capability. Excellent communication (verbal and
written). Programme solving and analysis. Conflict management. Research
analysis and methodology. Decision making Budgeting and Financial
Management. People and performance Management. Developing others.
Diversity Management.
DUTIES : Manage risk management services within the Fund. Manage the execution of
risk assessments and profiling. Manage risk awareness, education and training
programmes. Management of resources in the sub directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkabinde at 076 229 2252
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
15
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/20 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PROJECTS REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2DDSP/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Project Management /
Business Administration Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years
must be functional experience in Project Management environment and two (2)
years’ experience at a managerial level. Knowledge: Project Management
principles and methodologies. Project Management Information Systems
(PMBOK, MS projects etc.). Application of research methodology. Quality
management principles and processes. Public Service Act (PSA). Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Unemployment Insurance Amended Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance
Contribution Act (UICA). Skills: Financial / Budget Management.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal. Report
Writing. Project Management. Project monitoring and evaluation. Planning and
Organizing. Analytical. Creative. Facilitation.
DUTIES : Manage the strategic projects within the Fund. Monitor the implementation of
strategic projects within the Fund. Manage project deliverables in line with the
Fund strategic objectives, quality standards and expectations, Monitor the
project/programme quality management. Manage resources (Human, Finance,
Equipment / Assets)
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Nkosi Tel No: (012) 337 1962/ 1410
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF1@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 26/21 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2DDOSS/UIF
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Operations Management/ Business Administration/ Operations
Research/ Finance. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) years must be
functional experience in operations environment and three (3) years’
experience at Assistant Director level. Knowledge: Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Skills: Communication.
People Management. Listening. Computer Literacy. Time Management.
Analytical. Numeracy. Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Monitor and evaluate provincial operational performance. Develop and
manage implementation of new operational policies and procedures. Manage
operational services in provincial offices to manage consistency. Manage
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AP Ragavaloo Tel No: (012) 337 1882
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF2@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, White Females, White
Males and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/22 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACTUARIAL SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2/DDAS/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Actuarial Science at NQF Level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years must
16
be functional experience in actuarial services and two (2) years must be
managerial experience. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA).
Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act (UICA). Public Investment
Cooperation Act (PICA). Reporting Standards. Generally, Recognizes
Accounting Practices (GRAP). International Financial. Skills: Leadership.
Management. Computer Literacy. Communication. Time Management.
Planning and Organising. Analytical. Research. Problem Solving & Decision
Making. Portfolio Management. Financial Management. Policy formulation.
DUTIES : Provide technical guidance and actuarial functions in the UIF. Manage
accounting and disclosure of Actuarial estimates services in the UIF. Maintain
the working relationship with external actuarial advisors. Manage resources in
the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ASC Fourie Tel No: (012) 337 1420/ 1599
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF4@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 26/23 : PSYCHOMETRIST/ REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO: HR4/4/07/30
SALARY : Grade 1: R712 599 - R789 489 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R811 662 - R899 085 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R916 437 - R1 014 705 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : B-Psych degree at (NQF7)/ Honours degree in Psychology/ Industrial
Psychology at (NQF8). Minimum experience required for appointment of this
post: Grade 1: 0 years’ experience, Grade II: 8 years’ experience, Grade III: 16
years’ experience. Knowledge: International Labour Organization
Conventions, Financial Management, Human Resource Management, Public
Service Act, Skills Development Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Health
Professions Act, Employment Equity Act, COIDA, POPI Act. Skills: Planning
and organizing, Communication, Computer, Analytical, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report Writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to labour Centres for the delivery of Employment
Counselling services. Facilitate the referral of work- seekers to relevant
Employment Services and Active Labour Market Interventions. Co-ordinate the
dissemination of Career and Labour Market information to Labour Centres.
Establish and maintain relationships between Employment Counsellors and
relevant organizations. Co-ordinate the administration of Psychometric
Assessment, Supervise Administrative Personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nkiwane Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW6@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/24 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) OSD REF NO: HR 4/
4/3/2SLAO/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 8) in Law (LLB). At least eight
(8) years’ legal services experience. Admission as an Advocate or Attorney of
the High Court of South Africa. Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public
Service Act (PSA). Promotion of Administration Justice Act (PAJA). Promotion
of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Criminal Procedure Act. Law evidence.
Constitutional Law. The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Litigation Procedures. Skills:
Communication, Listening, Computer Literacy. Time Management. Report
writing. Planning and Organising. Liaison. Diplomacy. Policy Development.
Networking. Interviewing. Financial Management. Project Management.
Strategic Planning. Negotiation.
DUTIES : Monitor the provision of professional legal advice and support in the Fund.
Manage litigation for and on behalf of the Fund. Manage drafting of legal
17
documents (legislation, policies, regulations, contracts, memorandum of
understanding, service level agreements and other legal bidding documents
etc.). Manage processing of sections for benefit applications. Monitor oversight
of the Litigation Management. Manage resources (Human, Financial,
Equipment/ Assets) in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. LD Mkhonto Tel No: (012) 337 1411/ 1775
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF5@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 26/25 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO:
HR4/4/5/59
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Durban, KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Mechanical Engineering. Four (4) years functional experience in
Health and Safety Inspections focusing on Mechanical Engineering. Valid
Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures, Batho
Pele Principles, Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations,
OHS standards, COIDA, OHS Management System. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing skills, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project
management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Mechanical Engineering and ensure
implementation of Policies and Strategy for the Department of Employment and
Labour in terms of OHS Legislation. Conduct complex inspections for
Mechanical Engineering regularly as per OHS programme. Conduct technical
research on the latest trends of Mechanical Engineering in terms of
Occupational Health and Safety. Provide support for enforcement action,
including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Kubeka Tel No: (031) 366 2121
APPLICATIONS : Specialist OHS, KZN Provincial Office: PO Box 940, Durban, 4000 Or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, The Royal Hotel Building, Durban, 4001.
For Online Applications: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/26 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE REF
NO: HR4/4/07/01
Re-advertisement: candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree in
Environment Health/ Occupational Health/ Hygiene/ Analytical Chemistry/
Chemical Engineering. Four years’ functional experience in Health and
Hygiene Inspection/ services. Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge: Department
policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and
Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS standards, OHS Management
System. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer Literacy,
Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing Listening and Observation,
Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS
Legislation. Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as
per Inspection programme, conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Hygiene within Identified sector, provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Phinithi Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 Or
hand delivery to 2nd Floor, Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or
Email: Jobs-NW2@LABOUR.gov.za
18
POST 26/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUDIT COORDINATOR REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDAC/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Internal Auditing / Audit /
Accounting. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years must be
functional. experience in Internal Audit environment and two (2) years’
experience at supervisory level. Knowledge: Auditor General Processes and
Procedures, Internal Audit Manual and Methodology. Public Service Act (PSA).
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR).
Labour Relations+ Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Unemployment Insurance Amended Act (UIA) Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Communication skills, Computer Literacy.
Time Management Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing.
Analytical. Creative. Facilitation. Presentation.
DUTIES : Facilitate internal and external audit coordination. Coordinate requests from
internal and external auditors. Facilitate the implementation of Audit Action
Plans. Facilitate the implementation of PROBITY process. Manage resources
(Human, Finance, Equipment / Assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Nkosi Tel No: (012) 337 1962
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF6@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 26/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXCUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDES/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Office Administration /
Public Management / Public Administration. Four (4) years’ experience of
which two (2) years must be functional experience in executive support
environment and two (2) years’ experience at supervisory level. Knowledge:
Public Service Act (PSA). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Unemployment Insurance Amendment Act (UIA).
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Protected Disclosure Act. Protection of Personnel
Information Act. Skills: Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management.
Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing. Analytical. Creative.
Facilitation.
DUTIES : Coordinate response to Parliamentary Correspondence. Facilitate the
implementation of the oversight structures resolutions. Provide secretariat
support services. Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment / Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Nkosi Tel No: (012) 337 1962
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF7@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 26/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOSS CONTROL REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDLC/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Internal Auditing / Audit /
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Risk Management. Four (4) years’
experience of which two (2) years must be functional experience in Loss
Control and compliance environment and two (2) years’ experience at
supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Service Act (PSA). Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations
(PSR). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act
19
(BCEA). Unemployment Insurance Amended Act (UIA) Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Standards of Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice (GRAP). Standards of Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (GAAP). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Protected Disclosure Act. Financial Management Skills: Communication.
Computer Literacy. Time Management Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning
and Organizing. Analytical. Creative. Facilitation. Presentation. Financial
Management. Research. People Management.
DUTIES : Review policies and procedures regarding the treatment of irregular
expenditure in line with the PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Facilitate the
implementation of the Loss Control Framework. Conduct a determination test
to establish the facts and losses. Manage resources (Human, Financial,
Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Nkosi Tel No: (012) 337 1962
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF12@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria,
POST 26/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE SUPPORT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDCS/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Internal Auditing / Audit /
Accounting. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years must be
functional experience in compliance environment and two (2) years’ experience
at supervisory level. Admission as an Advocate or Attorney of the High Court
of South Africa. Knowledge: Public Service Act (PSA). Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Labour Relations
Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Unemployment
Insurance Amended Act (UIA) Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act
(UICA). Skills: Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management
Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing. Analytical. Creative.
Facilitation. Presentation.
DUTIES : Facilitate he implementation of the Compliance universe. Conduct the
compliance risks assessments. Facilitate the implementation of the compliance
plan. Review policies and procedures in line with the Compliance framework.
Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr SW Nkosi Tel No: (012) 337 1962
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF14@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria,
POST 26/31 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDB/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year Tertiary Qualification (NQF level 6) in Accounting
Sciences/Financial Management /Commerce. Four (4) years functional
experience in financial management environment of which two (2) years must
be at supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
National Treasury MTEF Guidelines. Public Service Regulations (PSR) Public
Service Act (PSA). Treasury Regulations. Generally Recognized Accounting
Principles (GRAP). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA). Skills: Financial Management. Communication. Computer literacy.
Time Management. Report Writing. Planning and organizing. Analytical.
Creative. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Facilitate budget process of the Fund. Coordinate budget governance and
Compliance. Facilitate compilation of budgets reports. Facilitate compilation of
external / Internal reports. Manage resources in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MT Ramanyimi Tel No: (012) 337 1513
20
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF15@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria,
POST 26/32 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FRAUD INVESTIGATION & ANTI-CORRUPTION
REF NO: HR4/4/7/03
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Risk Management/ Internal
Audit/ Forensic Investigation. Two (2) years functional experience in anti-fraud
and corruption environment. Two (2) years supervisory experience.
Knowledge: Investigative Principles and Practices, Departmental and the
Fund’s Policies and Procedures, Public Finance Management Act,
Unemployment Insurance and Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, All
Labour legislations, Anti-Fraud and Corruption Policies, Legal environment:
Court and Criminal Procedures, Fraud related administration and operations,
Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Public Service Act, COIDA. Skills: Planning Organizing, Time
Management, Conflict Management, Analytical, Investigation, Communication
(verbal & written), Computer Literacy, Presentation, Assertive, Attention to
detail, Client focused, Organisational goal driven, Initiative, Dedicated,
Responsiveness.
DUTIES : Combat fraud and corruption through investigations in the province to create
an environment which is fraud and corruption free. Develop and ensure
implementation of Risk Management and Anti-Fraud Strategy. Develop plans
for Risk Assessments and conduct awareness campaigns. Monitor and
implement controls to combat fraud and corruption. Conduct risk research and
analysis. Manage all resources within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Matlhako Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/33 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/64
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Risk
Management/ Internal Auditing/ Finance. 4 years’ functional experience in risk
or Internal audit/ Finance environment of which two (2) years is at senior
practitioner level or equivalent level. Knowledge: Policy, Legislation &
Regulations (Legislative Framework) knowledge & implementation. Insurance
& medical aid policies (knowledge and application). Compensation Fund
business strategies and goals. Extensive knowledge and understanding of
Treasury Audits. Risk assessment. Knowledge of investigation methods and
techniques. Required information technology knowledge. Compensation Fund
information technology operating systems. COIDA. Risk management
compliance. Framework for risk governance. Public Service Regulations.
Legislative Requirements: Public Finance Management Act. Treasury
Regulations. ISO Standards. King Code Governance. Skills: Legislation
interpretation. Operational Risk Management. Policy and Framework
Development. Incident Management. Policy Conceptualization and
Formulation. Emerging risk. Quality Assurance and Improvement. Digital
Acumen. Risk assessment. Risk sensing and scenario planning & analysis.
Stakeholder Development and Management. Facilitation and presentation.
Design of risk controls. Report writing and planning and organizing. Portfolio
risk optimization. Problem solving and analysis. Conflict management.
Decision making. People and performance management. Research analysis
and methodology. Excellent communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Provide input to manage risk management services within the Fund. Facilitate
risk assessment process and profiling to ensure effective risk and control
identification. Coordinate risk awareness, education and training programmes.
Management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Raganya at 064 951 5145
21
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDICAL PAYMENTS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/64 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Accounting/ Finance/
Internal Audit/ Informatics/ Business Management/ Operations Management/
Public Administration/ Clinical Qualification. 4 years’ functional experience in
financial services/medical aid/ claims processing environment of which 2 years
is supervisory experience. Knowledge: Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Public Service regulations, policies and procedures.
Compensation Fund value chain and business processes. COIDA, procedures
and processes. Biology and medical anatomy. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Operations systems. Risk awareness. Technical knowledge.
General knowledge of the Public Service Regulations. Legislative
Requirements: COIDA. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Data
Analytics. Project Management. Financial Management. Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Management. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Accountability. People Management and Empowerment
(including developing others). Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
Communication. Risk Management and Corporate Governance.
DUTIES : Coordinate the finalization of medical invoices for Head Office and Provinces.
Provide input in the development of policies and operational plans for
Provinces. Monitor medical payments to prevent wasteful expenditure for Head
Office and Provinces. Provide technical support to provincial offices and
medical services providers. Management of all resources in the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TJ Lekganyane at 066 471 6560
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/35 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/65
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Business Administration/ Project Management/ Developmental Studies/
Information Technology/ Public Administration. Project Management certificate
will be an added advantage. 4 years’ functional experience in project co-
ordination. Knowledge: Compensation Fund business strategies and goals.
Monitoring and Evaluation platform. Project management principles and
methodologies e.g. PMBOK. Project management information technologies
e.g. MS project etc. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Public policy
and frameworks. Knowledge of relevant legislation (Occupational Health and
Safety Act (OHS). Promotion of Access to Information Act, COIDA, PAJA, The
constitution of RSA, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills
Development Act, Basic conditions of Employment Act, Public service
Regulations, Public Service Act, Public finance Management Act (PFMA.
Legislative Requirements: Public Finance Management Act and National
Treasury Regulations. Skills: Project Coordination. Project Scope
Management. Project Schedule Management. Project Stakeholder
Management. Project Cost Management Budgeting Planning. Project Change
22
Management. Project Communications Information Management. Project
Reporting Management. Governance/ Monitoring and Assurance. Risk
Management. Digital Acumen. Business Acumen. Project Quality
Management. Project Management Governance. People Management.
Communication.
DUTIES : Provide project/ programme support in terms of planning project activities and
deliverables. Track project budget and expenditure. Co-ordinate project/
programme quality management. Assist in ensuring that best practice is
implemented in all projects / programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Khosa at 066 478 0037
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (X8
POSTS)
SALARY R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/15 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/17 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/18 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/19 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/20 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/21 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: North West Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/22 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/23 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resource Management. 4 years’ functional experience on Senior
Practitioner level in Human Resource Management (Recruitment & Selection,
Condition of Services, Performance Management and HRD) environment of
which 2 years at a supervisory level. Knowledge: Human Resource
Management Methodology, Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen/
Relevant HRM Systems/ Learning Systems/ Performance Systems etc. Del
and Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. COIDA. DPSA
Directives. Customer Service Principles (Batho Pele Principles). Technical
knowledge. Budgeting and Financial Management. Labour Relations Act.
Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury regulations. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework. Promotion of Access to Information Act.
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Minimum information security
standards (MISS). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPI). Legislative
Requirement: Public Service Regulations. Public Service Act. Skills: Coaching
and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical and Innovative Thinking. Inspire
Commitment. People Management. Performance and Oversight. Programme/
Project Management. Quality Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery
Innovation. Stakeholders Development & Relations. Data Gathering, Analysis.
Data/ Record Management.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate Recruitment and selection processes for COIDA Services in the
Province. Manage condition of services processes for COID Services in the
Province. Coordinate and maintain PERSAL establishment for COID Services
in the Province. Manage HR Records for COID Services in the Province.
Coordinate HR audits and reconciliation for COID Service in the Province.
Coordinate and implement workplace skills plan, developmental programs and
PDM system for COID Service in the Province. Manage all resources in the
Provincial HR Section for COID Service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Rampou at 082 758 7855
Mr TB Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
Mr S Joko Tel No: (043) 701 3030
Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8702
Ms S Lebogo at 082 885 8624
Mr S Segalo at 082 337 4551
Mr U Qambata at 082 414 8230
Ms N Litheko at 078 289 7151
23
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001. Or
hand deliver at Department Employment and Labour, No. 47 Empire Road,
Parktown. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-GP@labour.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Gauteng Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban.
Email to: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource
Management Kwa-Zulu Natal Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, No. 3 Hill Street. East London. Email to:
Jobs-EC9@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Eastern Cape Provincial Office.
The Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag x7263, Emalahleni,
1035 or hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner of Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni. Email to: Jobs-MPU-HRM@LABOUR.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Mpumalanga Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane. Email to: Jobs-
LP@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management Limpopo
Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke,
Street, Bloemfontein, 9301. Email to: jobs-fs10@LABOUR.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Free State Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X 2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. For online
Applications Email to: Jobs-NW8@Labour.gov.za For Attention: Human
Resource Management North West Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 Or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. For online Applications Email
to: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Northern Cape Provincial Office.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 26/37 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SPER/UIF
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Public Management/
Business Administration/ Financial Management/ Management/ Operations
Management/ Administration Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience functional experience in Operations
Environment. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations
(UIAR). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Batho Pele Principles. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Labour Relation Act (LRA). Operation Systems.
Skills: Communication. Listening. People Management. Numeracy. Computer
literacy. Time Management. Customer Relations. Analytical. Interpersonal.
Report Writing. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Render manual registration of employers and employees. Provide support in
the manual declaration of employers. Maintain the employers and employee’s
database. Supervise resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SS Tanana Tel No: (012) 337 1828
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF19@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Males, White Males
and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/38 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: PUBLICATIONS AND WEB DEVELOPER REF
NO: HR4/4/3/1SPPWDR/UIF
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Graphic design/
Multimedia, Communications, Public relations. Two (2) years’ functional
24
experience in Graphic design/ Multimedia, publications and web administration
environment. Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA).
Promotion to Access to Information Act (PAIA). Public Service Regulations
(PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Government Communication Information
System (GCIS). Skills: Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Branding principles. Problem solving. Presentation. Planning and organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report writing. Driving. Interpersonal.
Creativity. Search engine optimization techniques. Ability to work with HTML,
Java Script, Net, data bases and Content Management Systems.
DUTIES : Design and layout Strategic documents. Compile content for internal
communication platforms. Rendering production of UIF publications, audio
visual material and photography.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SV Makhubo Tel No: (012) 337 1933
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF22@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria, For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Males, White Males
and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/39 : POST SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT BUDGET REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SSAB/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year Tertiary Qualification (NQF Level 6) in Accounting Sciences/
Financial Management/ Commerce. Two (2) years functional experience in
financial management environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA). National Treasury MTEF Guidelines. Public Service Act (PSA).
Treasury Regulations. Generally Recognized Accounting principles (GRAP).
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Unemployment Insurance
Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Financial
Management. Communication. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Report
Writing. Planning and Organizing. Analytical. Creative. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Render effective budget process of the Fund. Provide budget governance and
compliance. Prepare budget reports. Prepare external/ internal reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ms T Ramanyimi Tel No: (012) 337 1726
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF26@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 26/40 : POST SENIOR PRACTITIONER: OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR4/4/3/1SPOSS/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Public Management. Two (2) years functional experience in
Operations environment. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act and
Regulations (UIAR). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UIA). Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Skills:
Computer Literacy. Communication (verbal and written). Planning and
Organizing. Time Management. Interpersonal. Listening. Report Writing.
Analytical.
DUTIES : Provide support in Provincial operational performance. Implement operational
policies and procedures. Supervise administration support services. Supervise
resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AP Ragavaloo Tel No: (012) 337 1726
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF27@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria, For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Management, UIF
25
POST 26/41 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/24 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/25 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/26 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/27 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: North West Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/28 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/29 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resource Management. 2 years’ functional experience in Human
Resource Management environment (Conditions of services, Recruitment and
Selection) environment. Knowledge: Human Resource Management
Methodology, Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen/ Relevant HRM
Systems/ Learning Systems/ Performance Systems etc. Del and
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. COIDA. DPSA Directives.
Customers Service Principles (Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge.
Budgeting and Financial Management. Labour Relations Act. Employment
Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act (PFMA). National Treasury
regulations. Preferential procurement Policy Framework. Promotion of Access
to Information Act. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Minimum
information security standards (MISS). Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPI). Legislative Requirement: Public Service Regulation. Public Service
Act. Skills: Critical and Innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. Programme/
Project Management. Quality Assurance. Service Development & Relations.
Data Gathering, Analysis. Data/ Record Management.
DUTIES : Conduct recruitment and selection processes for COID Services in the
provinces. Develop the Database for filled and vacant posts for COID Services
in the Province. Perform condition of service processes for COID Service in the
Province. Administrate PERSAL establishment for COID service in the
province. Keep safe all HR records for COID Service in the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Bowman at 082 091 8902
Mr S Joko Tel No: (043) 701 3030
Ms S Lebogo at 082 885 8624
Mr S Segalo at 082 337 4551
Mr U Qambata at 082 414 8230
Ms N Litheko at 078 289 7151
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email to: Jobs-WC1@LABOUR.gov.za
For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western
Cape.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, No. 3 Hill Street. East London. Email to:
Jobs-EC9@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Eastern Cape Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane. Email to: Jobs-
LP@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management Limpopo
Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke,
Street, Bloemfontein, 9301. Email to: jobs-fs10@LABOUR.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Free State Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. For online
Applications Email to: Jobs-NW8@Labour.gov.za For Attention: Human
Resource Management North West Provincial Office
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 Or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. For online Applications Email
to: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Northern Cape Provincial Office.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/42 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (HRD) (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
26
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Office Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/30 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/31 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/32 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/33 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/34 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: No: HR 5/1/2/3/35 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/36 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: North West Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/37 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR 5/1/2/3/38 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resources Management/Development. 2 years’ functional experience
in HRD and Performance Management environment. Knowledge: Performance
Management Methodology, Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen/
Relevant HRM Systems/ Learning Systems/ Performance Systems etc. Del
and Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Customer Service
(Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge. Skills Development Act. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Quality management and processes. Public
policy and framework. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. LRA, EE Act,
SDA & BCEA. COIDA. DPSA Directives. Legislative Requirement: Public
Service Act. Public Service Regulations. Skills: Data Gathering, Analysis.
Data/Record Management. Research and Benchmarking. Project
Management. Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Inspire
Commitment. People Management. Performance and Oversight. Quality
Assurance. Skills development. Human Resource Planning Skills. Training and
Development (HRD) Skills.
DUTIES : Implement bursary programs. Coordinate induction and orientation programs
in the province. Implement human resource development programs and
workplace skills plan for COID Service in the Provinces. Coordinate
Performance Management and Development System for COID Service in the
province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Rampou at 082 758 7855
Mr Q Bowman at 082 091 8902
Mr TB Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
Mr S Joko Tel No: (043) 701 3030
Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8702
Ms S Lebogo at 082 885 8624
Mr S Segalo at 082 337 4551
Mr U Qambata at 082 414 8230
Ms N Litheko at 078 289 7151
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001. Or
hand deliver at Department Employment and Labour, No. 47 Empire Road,
Parktown. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-GP@labour.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Gauteng Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-
WC1@LABOUR.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Management, Western Cape.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For
online Applications Email to: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human
Resource Management Kwa -Zulu Natal Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, No. 3 Hill Street. East London. For online
Applications Email to: Jobs-EC9@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human
Resource Management Eastern Cape Provincial Office.
The Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni,
1035 or hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner of Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-MPU-
HRM@LABOUR.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Mpumalanga Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane. For online Applications
Email to: Jobs-LP@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource
Management Limpopo Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke,
Street, Bloemfontein, 9301. For online Applications Email to: jobs-
fs10@LABOUR.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management Free
State Provincial Office.
27
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. For online
Applications Email to: Jobs-NW8@Labour.gov.za For Attention: Human
Resource Management North West Provincial Office
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 Or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. For online Applications Email
to: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
Northern Cape Provincial Office.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 26/43 : SAFETY OFFICER: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/67
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Safety Management/ Environmental Science. A certificate in SAMTRAC will be
an added advantage. 2 years’ functional experience in Health and Safety
environment. Knowledge: Regulatory knowledge, Law and Legislation.
Occupational Health and Safety knowledge (including safety, Health,
Environment and Quality-SHEQ). DEL and Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principle). Technical
knowledge. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Disaster management
Act. National Building regulation and building standards. DPSA guidelines on
COIDA. PFMA and National Treasury Regulation. Promotion of Access to
Information Act. PAJA. Constitution Act 108 of 1996 9ammended). LRA, EE
Act, SDA & BCEA. Legislative Requirements: Public service regulations. Public
service Act. Skills: Occupational health and safety knowledge. Data integrity
and management. Wellness and healthcare benefits. Coaching Management.
Conflict Management. Inspire Commitment. People Management.
Performance and oversight. Quality Assurance. Monitoring and assurance.
Research and Development.
DUTIES : Implement safety activities for the Fund. Provide support to Occupational
Health and Safety structure. Identify potential hazards and investigate the
incidents within the Fund. Conduct SHEQ (Safety, Health, Environment and
Quality) Audits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Shirinda at 060 971 6373
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/44 : SENIOR SYSTEM CONTROLLER: OPERATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/68
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Information Systems/ Technology/
Informatics. 2 years’ functional experience in Information systems. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund Strategic Objectives. Relevant stakeholders. Customer
Service (Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge. COIDA guidelines.
Public Service Act (PSA). Legislative Requirements: Sarbanes Oxley Act. ITIL
Framework. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Required
Technical proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Communication (verbal and
written). Customer Focus and Responsiveness. People and Performance
Management. Diversity Management. Managing inter-personal conflict and
resolving problems. Planning and organizing. Problem solving and decision
making. Team leadership.
DUTIES : Administrate daily operations for the Operational System and provide support.
Support, daily operations to users on the operational system. Ensure that all
reports are available to Users on the operational system. Identify and address
all problems relating to the operational management system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CP Bates at 083 472 3238
28
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/45 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE AUDITS REF
NO: HR 5/1/2/3/69
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Internal Audit/ Accounting/
Cost and Management Accounting. Internal Audit Technician (IAT) – as added
advantage. Internal Audit Technician- IAT as an added advantage. Institute of
Internal Auditors. 2 years’ functional experience in Assurance and Compliance
Audits environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures,
processes. Internal audit standards. Compliance and assurance processes.
International Professional Practice Framework. Customer Relationship
Management. Fund Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and
Financial Management. COIDA. Relevant stakeholders. Batho Pele Principles.
Legislative Requirements: PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Required Technical Proficiency. Business Writing skills. Analytical thinking.
Decision making. Communication (verbal and written). Customer focus and
Responsiveness. People and Performance Management. Managing inter-
personal conflict and problem solving. Planning and organizing. Team
leadership. External Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Assist in planning Compliance and Assurance audit engagements. Conduct
compliance and assurance audit engagements. Communicate Compliance
and Assurance audit results. Follow up the implementation of Compliance and
Assurance audit recommendations. Compile an audit file.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VR Nembudane at 067 424 6687
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/46 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: EMPLOYER COMPLIANCE REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/70
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Accounting/ Auditing/ Compliance
Management. 2-year functional experience in employer assessment or
revenue management or compliance management or health insurance
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures and
processes. Relevant stakeholders and customer. Customer service (Batho
Pele Principles). COIDA. Public Service Act. Public Service Regulations (PSR).
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Promotion of Access to
Personal Information Act (PAIA). Legislative Requirements: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Technical
proficiency. Communication (verbal and written). Meeting planning,
organization and facilitation. Data and records management. Telephone skills
and Etiquette. Problem solving and decision making. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Review various extras/requested data reports to identify possible non-
compliant employers for profiling. Review identified possible non-compliant
employers. Collaborate with the provinces in the conducting of employer
compliance audit (proactive and reactive) in relation to COIDA. Conduct
advocacy on employer compliance in relation to COIDA. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TA Mukwevho at 064 887 4605
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
29
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/47 : SENIOR STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/71
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification at NQF6 in Stakeholder Management/Public
Relations/Project Management. 2 years’ functional experience in stakeholder
or public relations environment is required. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
policies, procedures and processes. Customer service Principles (Batho Pele
Principles). Government communication information system guidelines
(Corporate Identity Guideline). Customer Relationship Management.
Stakeholder liaison. Communication or Media liaison. Publication production
and publishing environment. Technical knowledge. COIDA. Legislative
Requirements: Public service Act. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
National Treasury regulations. Preferential Procurement policy framework.
Promotion of Access to Information Act. Minimum information security standard
(MISS). Protection of personal information Act (POPI). Skills: Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Problem solving and
analysis. Planning and organizing. Decision making. Project Management.
Computer literacy. Conflict management. Research skills. Analytical skills.
Advertising. Events management.
DUTIES : Plan and coordinate CF events. Maintain good relationship with stakeholders.
Attend to all stakeholder requests. Support the positive branding of the fund
during stakeholder engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Thobakgale Tel No: (012) 319 9259
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 26/48 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PES REF NO: HR4/4/7/44
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Social Sciences
(Psychology, Public/Business Administration). Two (2) years functional
experience in Public Employment/Administration Services. Knowledge: ILO
Conventions, PFMA, Human Resource Management and Skills Development.
Skills: Planning and Organizing, Communication, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Leadership and Networking.
DUTIES : Coordinate information for compilation of reports. Coordinate PES training
processes to effect positive change on service delivery. Evaluate and monitor
the implementation of employment services in the province. Provide
administration support service within PES section. Manage the resources of
the Sub-Section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LL Shawe Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 7263, Emalahleni, 1035
Or hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni Jobs-MPU-PES@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/49 : OHS INSPECTOR: INSPECTION SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/7/45
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus three (3) year recognised qualification at NQF6 in the
relevant field, ie. Mechanical Engineering; Mechatronic Engineering; Electrical
Engineering; Chemical Engineering; Chemistry; Construction; Occupational
Hygiene or Environmental Health. A valid driver’s license. No experience
required. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures. Occupational
Health and Safety. Regulations (21). South African National Standards
30
(Codes). Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act.
Unemployment Insurance Act.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm legislations of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with labour legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating
from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour
legislations independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile
report. Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of
regional inspections plans and reports including, execution of analysis and
compilations of consolidates statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Milanzi Tel No: (013) 240 0236/0925/0727
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X251833, Middelburg
1050, Emily Hobhouse Building 175 Cowen Nthuli Street, Middelburg. Email:
Jobs-MDB-OHS@labour.gov.za
POST 26/50 : TEAM LEADER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/5/54
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Ulundi (KZN)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF 6 in the relevant field, ie. Labour
Relations / Labour Law / LLB/BCOM Law or Electrical / Mechanical
Engineering / Environmental Health / Analytical Chemistry / Chemical
Engineering/Civil & Construction Engineering/ Financial Management/
Auditing/Accounting. A Valid Driver’s licence. Two (2) years functional
experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Employment Service Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA,
SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment
Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal, Conflict Management, Negotiation, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Evaluation,
Performance Management, Communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity
Act (EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Occupational Health and
Safety Act (OHS), and UI Conditions Act (UCA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan. Allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy Campaign on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8800
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, Private Bag X56, Ulundi, 3838 Or hand
deliver at Unit A Wombe Street, Ulundi. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/51 : TEAM LEADER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Christiana Ref No: HR4/4/07/04 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Brits Ref No: HR4/4/07/05 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
31
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. Motlhabane (Christiana Labour Centre) Tel No: (053) 441 9700
Mr. N. Mthembu (Brits Labour Centre) Tel No: (012) 252 3068
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW10@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/52 : BCEA INSPECTOR REF NO: HR 4/4/07/06
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB. Two
(2) years functional experience in inspection and enforcement services. Valid
driving license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Labour Relations Act, UI
Contributions Act, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act,
Employment Equity Act. Immigration Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act.
Skills: Planning organizing, Compute literacy, Leaders, Facilitation,
Interpersonal, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation, Innovation,
Analytical, Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Sectoral Determination and the National Minimum Wage Act. Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
BCEA, SD and NMWA & Regulations and enforce as and when necessary.
Plan and conduct structured advocacy on BCEA, SD and NMWA
independently, and analyse impact thereof consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans execution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Barkel Tel No: (018) 381 1010
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW2@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/53 : OHS INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Christiana Ref No: HR4/4/07/07
Labour Centre: Klerksdorp Ref No: HR4/4/07/8
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate plus a 3-year tertiary qualification in
Labour Relation/ B-Tech degree in Labour Relations/ LLB for BCEA or
Electrical/Mechanical Engineering/ Environmental Health/ Analytical
Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering/ Civil & Construction Engineering for OHS.
A valid driver license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South
African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations,
32
Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication skills,
Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation
skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motlhabane (Christiana Labour Centre Tel No: (053) 441 9700
Mr T Tegele (Klerksdorp Labour Centre) Tel No: (018) 464 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW8@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/54 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR4) REF NO: HR4/4/3/2/LAO/UIF
(X4 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R388 392 – R444 075 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 8) in Law LLB. Five (5) years’
appropriate post qualifications legal experience. Admission as an Advocate or
Attorney of the High Court of South Africa. Knowledge: Performance Audit
Standards. Customer Relationship Management. Fund Governance and Risk
Management. Relevant Stakeholders. Batho Pele Principle. Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations.
Public Service Act (PSA). Promotion of Administration Justice Act (PAJA).
Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Criminal Procedure Act. Law of
Evidence. Constitutional Law. The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Unemployment Insurance
Act (UIA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Litigation Procedures. Skills: Time
Management. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing. Liaison. Diplomacy.
Policy Development. Report writing. Networking. Interviewing. Financial
Management. Project Management. Strategic Planning. Negotiation.
DUTIES : Provide professional Legal advice and support to the Fund. Handle litigation
for and on behalf of the Fund. Draft legal documents (legislation, policies,
regulations, contracts, memoranda of understanding, service level agreements
and other legal bidding. documents etc.) for the Fund. Provide support in
processing the sections for Benefit Applications under supervision of Senior
Legal Administration Officer. Conduct oversight of the Litigation Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TM Mokoena Tel No: (012) 337 1441
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-UIF17@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 26/55 : INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/5/57
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement
Services. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
33
Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and organising
(mainly for own), Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills,
Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing, listening and
observation skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), Execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary, Plan and conduct
proactive (Blitz) inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation, Conduct advocacy campaign on all labour legislation
independently, Draft and maintain inspection plans and reports including
analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on only allocated
cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Durban 4056 Or hand
deliver at Govt Buildings Masonic Grove, Durban. For online applications email
Jobs-KZN27@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/56 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/5/50
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Durban, KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Security / Risk
Management. One (1) year functional experience in the Security Services.
PSIRA (Minimum Grade). Knowledge: Protection of Information Act, Promotion
of Access to Information Act, Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act,
Knowledge of Physical security, Personnel and Document security,
Communication security, IT Security, Security investigation. Skills: Leadership
skills, Good written and verbal communication, Conflict management,
Interpersonal, Investigative analysis, Assertive, Innovative, Client focused,
Positive attitude, Patient.
DUTIES : Monitor access control within designated buildings. Implement Physical
Security Plan. Implement Information and Personnel Security Plan. Manage
contingency plan. Supervise security staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Provincial Operations, P. O. Box 940, Durban, 4000 Or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online applications e-mail
Jobs-KZN17@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Provincial Office: KwaZulu-
Natal
POST 26/57 : MEDICAL CASE COORDINATOR: PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GRADE 1-3)
REF NO: HR4/4/07/11
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384– R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : 4 years’ degree (NQF7)/ 3 years’ diploma in Nursing (NQF6). Post basic
Diploma in Occupational Health/ Theatre Technique/ Critical Care will be an
advantage. Valid Driver’s Licence is required. The following years of
experience in trauma/emergency/internal medical/ general surgery/
orthopaedics/ theatre at the regional public hospital level or private hospital are
required: Grade 1: 2-9 years’ experience gained after registration, Grade 2:
10-19 years’ experience gained after registration & Grade 3: 20 years above
experience gained after registration. Experience in medical claims processing/
insurance environmental will be on an added advantage. Registration with
South African Nursing Council. Knowledge: DoL and Compensation Fund
objectives and business functions, Compensation Fund Services, Directorate
or sub-directorate goals and performance requirements, nursing legislations
and related legal as well ethical nursing practices, stakeholders and customers,
customers service (Batho Principles), COIDA tariffs, technical knowledge,
34
PFMA and National Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act, COID Act,
National Health Act, Health Act, Nursing legislation, Allied Health Professions
Act, Rehabilitation framework & policy, Skill Development Act, Integrated
National Disability Strategy (INDS), Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS),
Promotion of equality and prevention of unfair discrimination Act. Skills:
Rehabilitation, analytical, business, financial management, knowledge
management, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis, decision
making, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Coordinate early rehabilitation interventions according to beneficiaries needs,
provide early rehabilitation intervention according to beneficiaries’ needs,
facilitate early to work and community re-integration programmes, maintain
relationships and empower all internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Esiang Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW1@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/58 : MEDICAL CASE ADJUDICATOR: PROFESSIONAL NURSE, GRADE 1-3
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Klerksdorp Ref No. HR4/4/07/09 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No. HR4/4/07/10 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : 4 years’ degree (NQF7)/ 3 years’ diploma in Nursing (NQF6). Post basic
Diploma in Occupational Health/ Theatre Technique/ Critical Care will be an
advantage. Valid Driver’s Licence is required. The following years of
experience in trauma/emergency/internal medical/ general surgery/
orthopaedics/ theatre at the regional public hospital level or private hospital are
required: Grade 1: 2-9 years’ experience gained after registration, Grade 2:
10-19 years’ experience gained after registration & Grade 3: 20 years above
experience gained after registration. Experience in medical claims processing/
insurance environmental will be on an added advantage. Registration with
South African Nursing Council. Knowledge: DoL and Compensation Fund
objectives and business functions, Compensation Fund Services, Directorate
or sub-directorate goals and performance requirements, nursing legislations
and related legal as well ethical nursing practices, stakeholders and customers,
customers service (Batho Principles), COIDA tariffs, technical knowledge,
PFMA and National Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act, COID Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Skills: Required technical
proficiency, business writing, required IT skills, data, capturing, data and
records management, telephone skills and etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide advice and recommendation in the acceptance of liability, recommend
the approval of medical accounts, provide medical advice on the processing of
occupational injury claims, determine PD (permanent disability) and TTD (total
temporary disability), assess medical accounts on occupational injury claims
and OD medical accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Esiang Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (Mmabatho)
Mr T Tegele Tel No: (018) 464 8700 (Klerksdorp)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW1@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/59 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LMIS&P REF NO: HR 4/4/07/12
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Social
Science/Economics/Statistics. Valid driving license. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Group Dynamics, Project
Management, COIDA, SDA, SDLA, LRA, EEA, BCEA, OHSA, UIA. Skills:
Analytical, Assertiveness, Communication, Interpersonal, Innovative, Creative
and Leadership, Management, Planning Organisation, Map reading,
Performance Management System, Team Management, Fieldwork data
collection.
35
DUTIES : Collect and collate information on the provincial labour supply and demand and
to monitor and evaluate the skills gap as per the government intervention
programs. Administer provincial data warehouse system for the purpose of
producing provincial quality data. Provide support to the provincial resource
centre/library activities and procure new books when required. Provide
provincial statistical time-series data for future departmental planning of
indicators. Manage all the resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Setzin Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW3@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/60 : BCEA INSPECTOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Secunda Ref No: HR4/4/7/43 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Christiana Ref No: HR4/4/07/13 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mogwase Ref No: HR4/4/07/14 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. No experience required. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Unemployment Insurance Act and
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning
and Organising (Own work), Computing (Spread sheet, PowerPoint and word
processing), Interpersonal skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills,
Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills and Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigation on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plan, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndimande Tel No: (017) 631 2585/2652/2672 (Secunda)
Mr P Motlhabane Tel No: (053) 441 9700 (Christiana)
Mr B Molefe Tel No: (014) 555 5693 (Mogwase)
APPLICATIONS : ACTING Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9057
Secunda 2302, 4 Waterson Street, Sunset park, Secunda. EMAIL: Jobs-SCU-
INSPT@LABOUR.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW7@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/61 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: CUSTOMER SERVICES (X84 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Centane Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/6/01 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Idutywa Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/6/02 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Nqamakwe Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/6/03 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Tsomo Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/ 6/04 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Butterworth but stationed at Willowavale Satellite Office Ref
No: HR4/4/ 6/05 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Cradock Ref No: HR4/4/6/07 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Cradock but stationed at Somerset East Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/6/08 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: East London but stationed at EL IDZ Satellite Office Ref No:
HR4/4/8/09 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni but stationed at Matatiele Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/06/10 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni but stationed at Mount Frere Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/6/11 (X3 Posts)
36
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni but stationed at Ntabankulu Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/6/12 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort but stationed at Adelaide Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/13 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Fort Beaufort but stationed at Alice Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/14 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Graaf-Reinet but stationed at Middelburg Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/6/14 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Graaf-Reinet but stationed at Willowmore Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/6/15 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Joubertina Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/16 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Louterwater Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/17 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Misgund Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/18 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Hankey Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/19 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Patensie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/20 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Jeffreysbay Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/21 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Humansdop Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/22 (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Cala Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/23 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Cofimvaba Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/24 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Lady Frere Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/25 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komani but stationed at Whittlesea Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/26 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Bizana Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/27 (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Flagstaff Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/28 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lusikisiki but stationed at Port St Johns Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/29 (X2 Posts)
Makhanda Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/6/30 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Makhanda but stationed at Port Alfred Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/31 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Maletswai but stationed at Barkly East Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/32 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Maletswai but stationed at Sterkspruit Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/33 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre Mdantsane Ref No: HR4/4/6/34 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdantsane but stationed at High Way Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/35 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdantsane but stationed at Berlin Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/36 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Mqanduli Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/37 (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Libode Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/38 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mthatha but stationed at Nqeleni Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/39 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Elliot Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/40 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Mount Fletcher Satellite Office Ref
No: HR/4/4/6/41 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Tsolo Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/42 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu but stationed at Ugie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/43 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Qonce but stationed at Sutterheim Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/44 (X2 Posts)
37
Labour Centre: Qonce but stationed at Peddie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/6/45 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Getyeza Tel No: (047) 491 0656
Ms L Nongena Tel No: (039) 254 7201
Mr T Mgudane Tel No: (046) 645 7700
Ms N Mkonto Tel No: (048) 881 3010
Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (049) 892 2142
Mr M Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7500
Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 995 7047
Mr L Mduduma Tel No: (043) 285 0403
Ms S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
Mr S Thambo Tel No: (045) 807 5477
Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 995 7047
Ms N Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104
Ms N Mtwa Tel No: (039) 253 1996
Ms N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 932 1077
Mr R Mbali Tel No: (051) 633 2633
Mr Mbande Tel No: (043) 718 8380
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X3081, Butterworth,
4960, Hand deliver at ERF 9369 Blyth and Robison Streets, Butterworth, 4960.
Email: Jobs-ECBTW@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, eMaXesibeni,
4735, Hand deliver at No 52 Church Street, emaXesibeni, 4735. Email: Jobs-
ECMTA@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, Fort Beaufort,
4735, Hand deliver at No 528 Alice Road Old, Teba Building, Fort Beaufort,
5720. Email: Jobs-ECFOB@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 38, Cradock, 5880, Hand
deliver at 73 Frere Street Centre Cradock, 5880. Email: Jobs-
ECCRD@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 342 Graaf-Reinet, 6280,
Hand deliver at 63 Church Street Graaf-Reinet, 6280. Email: Jobs-
ECGRN@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, IG Building Ensuco House NR Hill
and Church Streets, East London, 5201. Email: Jobs –ECELN@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, 15A Chase Street, Kariega, 6230.
Email Jobs- ECUHG@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Mzaule Street NU1 Mdantsane,
5219. Email: Jobs –ECMDS@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations Manpower Building CNR Elliot and
Madeira Streets, Umthatha. Email Jobs–ECUTT@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 5320, Komani, 5320,
Hand deliver at 10 Robinson Road Komani, 5320. Email: Jobs-
ECQTN@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 342 Makhanda, 6140,
Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X1002 Lusikisiki,
4820, Hand deliver at Stanford and Jacaranda Streets Lusikisiki 4820. Email:
Jobs-ECLSS@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 397 Nqanqarhu, 5780,
Hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu, 5480. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@Labour.gov.za
38
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 148 Maletswai, 9750,
Hand deliver at 80b Somerset Street Maletswai, 9750. Email: Jobs-
ECALN@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 260 Qonce 5600, Hand
deliver at 41 Arthur Street Qonce 5600. Email: Jobs-ECKWT@Labour.gov.za
For Attention: Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations
POST 26/62 : UIF CLAIMS OFFICER: PAYMASTER REF NO HR4/4/7/51 (X68 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Barberton (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethal (2X Posts)
Labour Centre: Morganzon Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malelane (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbibane satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite (X1 post)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing Ref No: (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hazy view Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: White river Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort Satellite (X2 posts)
Labour Centre: Volkrust (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite (X2 posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ogies Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ga-Nala Satellite (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate .Experience: 0-6 Months Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI
Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MPU-PAYM@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
39
POST 26/63 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER: ASSESSMENT REF NO: HR4/4/7/52 (X72 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Barberton (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre Bethal (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Morganzon Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malelane (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mbibane satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbombela (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Middelburg Office (X1 post)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hazyview 145 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: White river Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Volkrust (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite (X2 posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ga-nala (X1 post)
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina Satellite (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. 0-6 months experience. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines SKILLS: Interview, Communication
(verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone
etiquette, On job training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 7263, Emalahleni, 1035
Or hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni or Email to Jobs-MPU-ASSESS@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga
POST 26/64 : UIF CLAIMS OFFICER: EMPLOYER SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/7/53 (X80
POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
Labour Centre: Barberton (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethal (3X Posts)
Labour Centre: Morganzon Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X3 Posts)
40
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malelane (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbibane satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite (X2 posts)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite Office-Mashishing (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Middelburg (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbombela Ref No: (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Hazyview Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: White river Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Volkrust (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ga-nala (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. 0-6 months experience. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI
Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni or Email to Jobs-MPU-EMPLOYER-SERV@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
POST 26/65 : UIF CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/7/54 (X120 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
Labour Centre: Barberton (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethal (6X Posts)
Labour Centre: Morganzon Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X5 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite (X3) Posts
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mbibane satellite (X3 Posts)
41
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing (X5) Posts
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Middelburg (X2 posts)
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbombela (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Hazy view Satellite (X3 posts)
Labour Centre: White river Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Volkrust (X5 posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X5 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ga-nala (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ogies Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: 0 to 6 months
experience. Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho
Pele Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI
Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
POST 26/66 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: QUALITY ASSURER REF NO: HR/4/4/7/55
(X118 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
Labour Centre: Barberton (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethal (4X Posts)
Labour Centre: Morganzon Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malelane (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbibane satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Middelburg (X4 Posts)
42
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbombela (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Hazy view Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: White river Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Volkrust (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ga-nala Ref (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ogies Satellite (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. 0-6 months experience. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI
Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Baholo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MPU-QUALITY@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
POST 26/67 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
SERVICES (IES) REF NO: HR/4/4/7/56 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
Labour Centre: Barberton (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Bethal (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Carolina (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Standerton (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: All relevant Labour
Legislations and Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Interpersonal,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to
interpret legislation, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mashinini Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
43
POST 26/68 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: (PES) REF NO: HR/4/4/7/57 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ermelo (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Sabie (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Secunda (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LL Shawe Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or
hand delivery to Labour Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-PES@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Mpumalanga.
POST 26/69 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Lichtenburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/24 (X1 Post)
Potchefstroom Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/25 (X1 Post)
Rustenburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/26 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies, Procedures and guidelines, Labour Legislation and
Regulations, Employment Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations,
Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Computer literacy, Communication,
Interpersonal, Problem solving, Listening, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing,
Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services, Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mathule Tel No: (018) 632 4323 (Lichtenburg)
Ms M Barkel Tel No: (018) 297 5100 (Potchefstroom)
Ms BC Dirane Tel No: (014) 285 0158 (Rustenburg)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW6@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/70 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: UIF (X99 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Vryburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/15 (X12 Posts)
Potchefstroom Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/16 (X14 Posts)
Christiana Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/17 (X14 Posts)
Taung Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/18 (X14 Posts)
Klerksdorp Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/19 (X10 Posts)
Brits Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/20 (X9 Posts)
Rustenburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/21 (X5 Posts)
Lichtenburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/07/22 (X8 Posts)
Mogwase Labour Centre Ref No HR4/4/07/23 (X13 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
44
Vision, Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interviewing, Communication (verbal and
written), Listening, Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone
etiquette, On job training (operations system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services, Process applications for UIF benefits, Register
payment continuation forms, Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mathule Tel No: (018) 632 4323 (Lichtenburg)
Ms M Barkel Tel No: (018) 297 5100 (Potchefstroom)
Ms BC Dirane Tel No: (014) 285 0158 (Rustenburg)
Mr P Motlhabane Tel No: (053) 441 9700 (Christiana)
Mr T Tegele Tel No: (018) 464 8700 (Klerksdorp)
Mr B Molefe Tel No: (014) 555 (Mogwase)
Mr N Mthembu Tel No: (012) 252 3068 (Brits Labour Centre)
Mr P Mochwening Tel No: (053) 927 5221 (Vryburg)
Mr T Lucas Tel No: (053) 994 1679 (Taung)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW6@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/71 : INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Sasolburg (Free State) Ref No: HR4/4/8/943 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Verulam (KZN) Ref No: HR4/4/5/58 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF 6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM
Law/ LLB. Valid driver’s Licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures. Skills Development Act Labour Relations Act. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and organising (own work),
Computing (spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing), Interpersonal
Skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical, Verbal and written
Communication skills, Employment Equity.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislation. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Lelope Tel No: (016) 976 2270 (FS)
Mr B Zondi Tel No: (032) 5415602 (KZN)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs11@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Operations, Free State
: Deputy Director: Verulam Labour Centre, PO Box 1144, Verulam 4340 Or hand
deliver at 13 Wick Street, Verulam. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN30@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/72 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/72
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/Senior Certificate (on NQF Level 4). Experience None.
Knowledge: National Archives guide and Record Service. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles. Departmental policy. Occupational
Health and Safety. Public Finance Management Act. Legislative Requirements:
COID. Public Service Act. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Verbal and Written communication. Interpersonal relations. Problem Solving.
Organsing.
DUTIES : Administer archival records and keep them in good condition. File document
according to the requirements of National Archives. Handle all income and
outgoing malls. Procure and disuse stocks, stationery and equipment for the
section.
45
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Mahlaule at 082 679 7673
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 26/73 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/07/27
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed Commercial Subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or with equivalent Certificate; no experience
required. Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Financial prescripts and
manuals, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Planning and Organising, Computer
literacy, Communication, Problem solving, Accounting, Analysis.
DUTIES : Compile and capture all financial transactions for the whole Province on
financial system (e.g BAS, LOGIS, PERSAL and safety-net). Render proper
record keeping for future reference. Provide support in monitor budget
processes for the province. Administer Petty cash adherence to petty cash
guideline. Clear suspense accounts and allocated accounts before month
closure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Modikoe Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW4@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 26/74 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/07/28
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; no experience required. Knowledge: Office Administration,
Computer Literacy, Secretariat. Skills: Telephone etiquette, Communication
skills (Written and Verbal), Interpersonal Relations, Administration, Computer.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services. Provide personnel administration support services. Render
secretariat support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mbale Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho. or Email: Jobs-
NW4@LABOUR.gov.za
46
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/75 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT EQUITY AND GENDER REF NO: NDOH
73/2025
Directorate: Employment Equity and Gender
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consist of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion]. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and NQF 7 qualification in Gender Studies/Human Resources
Management/Social Science or Public Administration as recognized by SAQA.
At least five (5) years’ experience at Middle Management/Senior Management
level in employment equity environment or related field. Knowledge of Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act,
Skills Development legislation, Human Resources policies and procedures,
Public Service Transformation, The Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, Diversity Management and white paper on affirmative actions. Good
47
communication (verbal and written), research, problem solving, analytical,
coordination, planning, organizing, corporate governance, people
management leadership and computer skills (MS Office package). A valid
driver’s license. SMS pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment
finalization.
DUTIES : Oversee and manage the development, implementation and review of
employment equity and gender focal point, policies, plans and programmes.
Ensure that Employment Equity (EE) and Gender policy, plan are developed,
reviewed, benchmarked, updated and approved to be in line with legislation.
Manage the co-ordination and implementation of disability programmes.
Manage the co-ordination and conducting of disability workshops/awareness
programmes. Ensure stakeholder consultation and oversee advocacy project.
Plan and organise seminars, workshops and conference for the internal staff
in the department. Coordinate and facilitate the development and
implementation of affirmative action measures. Develop and update the
Employment Equity plan to promote Affirmative Action. Management of
resources (personnel and finance), risk and audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mamogale Tel No: (012) 395 9378
OTHER POST
POST 26/76 : CHIEF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER GRD I REF NO: NDOH
74/2025
Directorate: Employment Equity and Gender
SALARY : R575 250 per annum, as per OSD
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and at least NQF 6 qualification in Environmental Health.
Registration with HPCSA as an Environmental Health Practitioner, and in good
standing. At least three (3) years’ experience in environmental health.
Knowledge of legislation related to environmental health, project management
and stakeholder engagement. Knowledge of the International Health
Regulations. Good communication (verbal and written), planning and
organising, supervisory, research/analysis, and problem solving as well as
computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work well under pressure,
irregular hours, independently and in a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Facilitate the issuance of human remains import and export permits for ports
of entry in the country. Conduct risk assessment and ensure required service
standards are complied with during the process of issuing permits. Attend to
queries and complaints related to human remains permits issuance. Analyse
and maintain human remain permit issuance data. Conduct data analysis on
the information received through the system. Provide recommendations for
process and system changes based on analysed data. Conduct training and
workshops to various stakeholders on matters related to human remain
permits. Provide technical support on port health related matters in the
directorate and support in training and workshops on port health matters
Supervise community services Environmental Health Practitioners.
Management of Hazardous Substances. Provide technical support on the
implementation of Hazardous Substances 1973 (Act No.15 of 1973). Assist
and support in the development or reviewing of relevant legislation and other
policy mandates on hazardous substances control. Provide training to
Hazardous Substances dealers and BMA officials on the Hazardous
Substances Act, and its Regulations. Observe International Lead Poisoning
Prevention Week of Action and raise awareness on other priority hazardous
chemicals targeting the border environment and hazardous substances
suppliers. Ensure all records related to hazardous substances are kept and
reports are developed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms APR Cele Tel No: (012) 395 8522
48
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online at dha-erecruitment-
publicportal.azurewebsites.net or send to the correct address specified at the
bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Application for
Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Shortlisted candidates
are required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if
specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a
prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate
to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only.
OTHER POST
POST 26/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: HRMC 27/25/1
(X1 POST)
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Northern Cape: Provincial Manager’s Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations or Labour Law at NQF level
6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience as Labour Relations Officer or
Practitioner. Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, 66, 1995. Knowledge of Collective
Bargaining. Knowledge of relevant Departmental Legislation and prescripts.
Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of DPSA
guidelines. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and Leadership. Client
Orientation and customer focus. Time Management and ability to meet
deadlines. Good verbal and written communication, as well as report writing
and presentation skills. Problem-solving and Analytical skills. Program and
project management. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, to
support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required
work. Support digital transformation. Decision making. Accountability.
Interviewing skills. Planning and organizing. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Facilitate the implementation of misconduct and
disciplinary processes in the Province. Represent the Province at all
disciplinary hearings. Provide expert advice in the Province on disciplinary and
misconduct matters. Establish partnerships and constantly liaise with provincial
external stakeholders on labour related matters on recognized Labour unions.
Represent the Department in disputes and facilitate the acquisition of evidence
and witness for arbitration matters. Facilitate labour related programmes,
collective bargaining, grievance resolution and dispute management process
in the Province. Respond to complaints, grievances and appeals adhering to
all regulatory, accreditation and internal processing timelines and guidelines.
49
Co-ordinate and participate in the Provincial Consultative Forum (PCF).
Conduct research on case law, adjudication trends and developments in labour
law and labour relations. Prepare and submit reports on grievances, disputes
and misconduct cases to Head Office on a weekly basis. Represent the
Department in mediation, conciliation and arbitration matters. Build and
maintain relationships with various stakeholders. Benchmark with various
institutions for best practice. Provide expect advice to the Province on Labour
Relations matters. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance
management practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Ms S Botha Tel No: (053) 807 6700
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at dha-erecruitment-publicportal.azurewebsites.net or sent to
the correct address specified as follows:-Northern Cape: Postal Address:
Private Bag X6073, Kimberley, 8300 Physical Address: Quantum Leap
Building, 69 Du Toitspan Road, Kimberley, 8300.
50
ANNEXURE E
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate’s (IPID) intention is to promote representatively in terms
of race, gender and disability within the Department through the filling of posts. Candidates, whose
appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of gender equity within the IPID, will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend competency assessment using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Furthermore, the
requirements for appointment at Senior Management Service level include the
successful completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government. Applicants should indicate on
their CV’s that they have registered or they have completed the Pre-entry
Certificate, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment will take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry
certificate and submission of proof thereof. Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Due to the large number of applications we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted
within three (3) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the
post will be required to submit the documents on or before the date of the
interview. The successful candidate will have to undergo security vetting. His
/ her character should be beyond reproach. The appointment is subject to
security clearance, verification of qualifications and competency assessment
(criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and
employment verification). Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this
be uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of the security vetting process. All applicants are
required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose
memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
The successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of 12
months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. The suitable
candidate will be selected with the intention of promoting representivity and
achieving affirmative action targets as contemplated in the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate
reserves the right to fill or not fill the bellow-mentioned posts.
51
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/78 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND LITIGATION ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO:
Q9/2025/60
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB/ B. Proc. Degree (NQF7) as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience
at Middle/Senior Managerial level. Driver’s license. Admitted
Attorney/Advocate with relevant experience as a practicing Attorney or
Advocate. 3 years’ experience in the Civil and Labour relations environment.
Knowledge Requirements: Knowledge and understanding of the IPID Act,
PFMA and other relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public
Service, including knowledge of corporate and administrative law. Litigation
experience in dealing with criminal and civil matters especially
corruption/systemic corruption matters. Advanced knowledge of the drafting of
legislation, sub-ordinate legislation and/or investigations and Standard
Operating Procedures. Understanding of the key priorities of government.
Knowledge of South African law and civil procedures. Skills and Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership skills. Analytical thinking. Planning and
organizing. Problem solving and decision-making skills. Innovation and
creative thinking. Legal court administration skills. Project management skills.
Strategic planning skills. Change management skills. Computer literacy. Ability
to interpret the law. Written and verbal communication skills. Report writing
skills. Negotiation skills. Research of the law. Honesty and integrity. Ability to
work under pressure. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial
management skill.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction to the component: Provide inputs into Strategic
planning of the Directorate and/or Chief Directorate. Identify priority areas and
determine objectives and operational plans of the component, in line with the
strategic plan of the Department. Monitor, evaluate and report on the
performance of the component according to the objectives determined in the
operational plan. Policy and systems Development: Establish, evaluate and
maintain policies, systems and processes in line with regulations and best
practices principles. Direct the implementation of specific procedures, systems
and controls. Provide Legal Advisory and Compliance Services: Review and
/or provide legal opinions, advice, correspondence to ensure quality control
and compliance with legislation, regulations, policies and standards. Provide
input and/or make recommendations based on research findings on draft
legislation. Legal Services Management: Direct and manage administrative
appeals. Direct and manage the provision of core legal advice and services. To
coordinate and manage civil, labour and arbitration litigation matters. Advise if
the department should litigate or defend the department after ascertaining the
facts for matter referred to the unit. Contract and Risk Management: Provide
contract management service, review, develop service level agreements and
associated correspondence to ensure quality control and compliance with
policies, procedures, regulations and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Setshedi Tel No: (012) 399 0030
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate, National Office Private Bag
X941, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to Benstra Building, 473 Stanza Bopape
& Church Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, or email recruitment13@ipid.gov.za
(Please indicate the post name and reference number on the subject line) when
applying through e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. DS Baloyi Tel No: (012) 399 0202
POST 26/79 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND INVESTIGATIONS SERVICES REF NO:
Q9/2025/61
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB/ B. Proc. Degree (NQF7) as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience
at Middle/Senior Managerial level. Driver’s license. Admitted
Attorney/Advocate with relevant experience as a practicing Attorney or
Advocate. Knowledge Requirements: Knowledge and understanding of the
IPID Act, PFMA and other relevant legislation and regulations that govern the
Public Service, including knowledge of corporate and administrative law.
Litigation experience in dealing with corruption/systemic corruption matters.
52
Experience in drafting of legislation, sub-ordinate legislation and/or
investigations and Standard Operating Procedures. Understanding of the key
priorities of government. Knowledge of South African law and civil procedures.
Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Analytical
thinking. Planning and organizing. Problem solving and decision making skills.
Innovation and creative. Legal court administration skills. Project management
skills. Strategic planning skills. Ability to Interpret law. Communication (Written
and verbal) skills. Report writing skills. The ability to interpret and research the
law. Project Management skills. Negotiation skills. Honesty and integrity.
Change Management skills. Computer literacy Financial management skill.
Client orientation and customer focus. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership and Planning: Provide strategic direction for the Legal and
Investigation Advisory Services unit. Identify priority areas and formulate
objectives and the department’s strategic goals. Monitor, evaluate and report
on the performance of the component against operational objectives. Legal
Policy Development and Governance: Establish, review, and maintain legal
policies, systems and processes in line with applicable regulations and best
practice. Direct the implementation of legal procedures, systems and internal
controls to ensure compliance and efficiency. Draft Practice notes and
directives to guide legal and investigative practices. Legal Advisory and
Legislative Support: Review and provide legal opinions, advice,
correspondence to ensure quality control and compliance with legislation,
regulations, and departmental policies. Conduct legal research and provide
recommendations on draft legislation and regulatory frameworks. Ensure
alignment of legal advice with departmental and national legal standards.
Investigative legal Oversight: Direct and manage processing of applications for
policy powers in accordance with legal mandates. Oversee and manage
administrative appeals, ensuring procedural fairness and legal compliance.
Provide legal oversight and guidance on investigations, ensuring adherence to
legal standards and ethical practices. Oversee, manage and enhance the
processing of PAIA requests within 30 days of receipt. Legal Capacity and
Stakeholder Engagement: Conduct workshops and training sessions on legal
practice notes and directives. Promote legal awareness and understanding
across the department and among stakeholders. Engage with internal and
external stakeholders to ensure effective legal advisory support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MS Ramafoko Tel No: (012) 399 0000
Ms N Nadooi Tel No: 031 310 1300
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Independent Police Investigative Directorate, National Office Private
Bag X941, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to Benstra Building, 473 Stanza
Bopape & Church Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, or email
Recruitment14@ipid.gov.za (Please indicate the post name and reference
number on the subject line) when applying through e-mail. For Attention: Mr.
DS Baloyi Tel No: (012) 399 0202
Durban: Independent Police Investigative Directorate, hand deliver to 22
Dorothy Nyembe Street, 3rd Floor the Marine Building, Durban, 4000 or
recruitment2@ipid.gov.za (Please indicate the post name and reference
number on the subject line) when applying through e-mail. For Attention: Mr. S
Ndlovu @ 031 310 1300
53
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: Please note the following corrections regarding the advertised
posts in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated 18 July 2025 with the
closing date of 04 August 2025:
Senior Assistant State Attorney (LP5-LP6) with Ref No: 25/VA11/NW: The
requirements of “the right of appearance in the High Court is removed.
Assistant State Attorney (LP3-LP4) with Ref No: 25/VA10/NW: The
requirements were advertised as “At least 2 years appropriate post qualification
Admission/litigation experience, the amended one should read as follows: “At
least 2 years appropriate post qualification legal/litigation experience”.
Family Law Assistant with Ref No: 25/37/FS, the correct centre of the post
should be Family Advocate: Bloemfontein, and not Magistrate Office:
Bloemfontein as previously indicated.
Chief Administration Clerk with Ref No: 25/35/FS, the correct centre of the post
should be Family Advocate: Bloemfontein, and not Family Advocate: Welkom
as previously indicated.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/80 : FAMILY ADVOCATE; (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 2025/50/GP
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum. (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Pretoria
54
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized 4-year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admittance as an Advocate;
A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills
(verbal and writing); Research and investigation; Monitoring and evaluation;
Report writing skills; Diversity management; Computer literacy; Dispute and
Conflict Resolution skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family Advocate
in accordance with relevant legislation; Attend to Hague matters when delegated
to do so; Endorse settlement agreements or commenting thereon; Institute and
conduct enquiries to ascertain the best interests of the minor child through
alternative dispute resolution (ADR) procedures and evaluation; Attend to
relevant circuit courts within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AREA COURT MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 702 – R1 055 958 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District: Mount Frere Ref No: 80/25EC (X1 Post)
OR Tambo District: Mthatha Ref No: 81/25EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration / Public Management / Legal or
equivalent qualification; At least 3 years’ relevant experience at managerial
(Assistant Director) level; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of Financial Management and Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA); Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and
Vote Accounts; Experience in the Court Environment will be an added
advantage; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Strong Leadership
and management capabilities; Strategic capabilities; Financial management
skills; Project management; Good communication (verbal and written);
Computer literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Decision making skills;
Presentation skills; Developing others.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage case-flow management; Manage the financial
resources of the Cluster; Manage office facilities, risk and security; Manage
Supply Chain and Assets services; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
25/VA27/NW
SALARY : R896 436– R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: North West
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Safety
and Security; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a safety and security work
environment at managerial (Assistant Director) level; Registration with PSIRA or
NOSA or SSA; Knowledge and understanding of Security Management related
legislation and policies, Knowledge of Security Management frameworks and
guidelines; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks; Financial Management and regulatory frameworks/guidelines,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and
Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and
financial management; Communication and information management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others;
Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal conflict
and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Decision making; Project
management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
55
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate security operations; Coordinate and
conduct security risk management assessment; Monitor security contract
performance; Coordinate the provision of close protection, special events and
cash-in-transit services; Coordinate the provision of information security and
vetting services; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22 Molopo Road,
Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/83 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5-LP6) (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R630 630 – R1 450 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement
CENTRE : State Attorney: East London Ref No: 84/25EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Mthatha Ref No: 85/25EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 86/25EC (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At
least 4 years’ appropriate post qualification legal/ litigation experience; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, Office management, accounting systems
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and transformation
objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa; A valid driver’s license. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute
resolution; Case flow management; Accuracy and attention to details; Good
communication (written and verbal); Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal in the High
Court, Magistrates Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims,
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, Tax and Tax tribunals;
Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft and/or settle all types of arrangements
on behalf of various clients; Attend to liquidation and insolvency, queries,
conveyancing and notarial services; Deal with all forms of arbitration, including
inter-departmental arbitration; Register trust and debt collection; Provide
effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mrs. L de Kock Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7130
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the address provided
on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office, Department of
Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East London OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a current certificate of good
standing from the relevant law Society, along with a service record on the
interview dates. Separate application must be made quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 26/84 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5-LP6) REF NO: 24/25/NC/S.A-
KIM (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R630 630 – R1 450 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Northern Cape: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At
least 4 years’ appropriate post qualification legal/ litigation experience; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, Office management, accounting systems
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and transformation
objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa; A valid driver’s license;
Conveyancing and notary will serve as added advantages. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute
resolution; Case flow management; Accuracy and attention to details; Strong
communication (written and verbal); Supervisory and mentoring skills; Creative
and analytical; Problem solving and conflict management; Accuracy and
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal in the High
Court, Magistrates Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims,
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, Tax and Tax tribunals;
Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft and/or settle all types of arrangements
56
on behalf of various clients; Attend to liquidation and insolvency, queries,
conveyancing and notarial services; Deal with all forms of arbitration, including
inter-departmental arbitration; Register trust and debt collection; Provide
effective people management; Guide and train Candidate State Attorney.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gcilitshana Tel No: (053) 8077800
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300 OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings,
(Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize
courier services in light of the current postal service challenges. Interested
applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/85 : COURT MANAGER (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Keiskammahoek Ref No: 82/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Ngqeleni Ref No: 83/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Strand Ref No: 12/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Bronkhorspruit Ref No: 2025/02/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Germiston Ref No: 2025/03/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lenasia Ref No: 2025/04/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration /Management/Law/Legal studies
or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in court management environment of which 2 years should be as a
supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA);
Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Accounts; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and information
management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness;
Developing others; Diversity management; Planning and organizing; Problem
solving; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human resource,
risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business planning
processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile an analyze court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer service
improvements strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape, Mr A Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Gauteng: Ms. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the
address provided on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office,
Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East
London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag
X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Provincial Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical
Address: Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
57
POST 26/86 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY, (LP3-LP4) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R377 523 – R1 032 906 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Mthatha Ref No 87/25EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Port Elizabeth Ref No 88/25EC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney;
At least 2 years appropriate post qualification legal /litigation experience; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and
drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Strategic and conceptual
orientation; Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts,
Magistrate Courts, Labour Courts, Land Claims Courts and CCMA; Draft and/or
settle all types of agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render legal
opinions and advice; Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-departmental
arbitration and debt collection.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. L De Kock Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7130
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a current certificate of good
standing from the relevant law Society, along with a service record Separate
application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 26/87 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Bizana Ref No: 70/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Butterworth Ref No: 71/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Dutywa Ref No: 72/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Daveyton Ref No: 2025/05/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/06/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Randburg Ref No: 2025/07/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Randfontein Ref No: 2025/08/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mmabatho Ref No: 25/VA22/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma / Bachelor Degree in Public Administration / Public
Management or equivalent; 3 years administration experience; Knowledge of
Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and Risk
Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Knowledge of
Financial Management (Vote and Trust Account); Departmental Financial
Instructions, BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and competencies: People
Management; Computer literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resources of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning process; Manage the Criminal and
Civil Court Administration Section and other sections related to Family Court and
Supply Chain; Manage Third Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office; Co-
ordinate, Manage and administer support services to Case Flow Management
and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Mthantalala Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7133
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
Gauteng: Ms P Raadt Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical Address:
58
Provincial Office – Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner Chambers, Corner Pritchard and Kruis street,
Johannesburg OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 26/88 : IT AUDITOR REF NO: 25/72/DG (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year National Diploma/NQF level 6/Degree in Auditing/Information
System/Computer Science or equivalent qualification; A minimum of 1 year
experience in Auditing or Computer Audit; Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Companies Act,
Close Corporations Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Prevention and
Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, Protected Disclosure Act, Criminal
Procedure Act, Prevention of Organised Crime Act, Basic Condition of
Employment Act, Labour Relations Act; Knowledge of other Public Sector
regulatory policies, procedures, rules and regulations. Skills and Competencies:
Planning and organizing; Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Concern for others; Creative thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem
solving and analysis; Computer literacy; Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide input in audit planning process; Execute audit
engagements; Provide administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. Chauke Tel No: (012) 315 1329
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical Address: Application
Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/89 : FORENSIC AUDITOR: FORENSIC AUDITS REF NO: 25/74/DG (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A 3- year National Diploma/NQF level 6/Degree in Audit/ Accounting/ Law/ Police
Administration or equivalent; A minimum of one year experience in Auditing or
Forensic investigations; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act,
Constitution of Republic of South Africa, Companies Act, Close Corporations Act,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, Prevention and Combating of Corrupt
Activities Act, Protected Disclosures Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Prevention of
Organised Crime Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations
Act; Knowledge of other Public Sector regulatory policies, procedures, rules and
regulations. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Good Communication
skills; Planning and organising skills; Concerns for others; Creative thinking;
Customer service orientation; Problem solving and analysis; Self-management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Investigate allegations/irregularities falling within the
Department’s mandate; Report finalized investigations and resolutions to
management; Render operational administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Chauke Tel No: (012) 315 1329
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: Application
Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/90 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: GENERAL ASSURANCE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Regional Office: Kimberley Ref No: 25/75/DG (X1 Post)
National Prosecuting Authority: Silverton (Cluster: 4) Ref No: 25/77/DG (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 years National Diploma/NQF level 6 in Auditing or equivalent; At least 1 year
experience in Internal Auditing. Skills and Competencies: Communication
59
(written and verbal); Financial management; Computer skills; Planning and
organizing; Programme & project management; Interpersonal skills; Ability to
work in a team; Client orientation and customer focus; Research skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide input in the audit planning process; Execute
audit engagements; Provide administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Chauke Tel No: (012) 315 1329
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to: Postal address: The Human Resource: Department of
Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR
Physical address: Application Box, First floor reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/91 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Maluti Ref No: 73/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mdantsane Ref No: 74/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Cullinan Ref No: 2025/28/GP (X1 Post)
Family Advocate: Palm Ridge, Ref No: 2025/60/GP (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/54/GP (X2 Posts)
Master of The High Court Pretoria Ref No: 2025/55/GP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Klerksdorp Ref No: 25/VA21/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Mmabatho Regional Court, Ref No: 25/VA21/NW (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations;
Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and other relevant
Legislation. Skills and Competences: Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and outlook); Communication skills (verbal and written);
Interpersonal relations; Problem solving skills; Ability to work under pressure and
work dependently; Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render general clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical support within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support services
in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr. Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7135
Gauteng: Ms P Raadt Tel No: (011) 332 9000
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the
address provided on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office,
Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East
London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 26/92 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Humansdorp Ref No: 59/EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: King Williams Town Ref No: 60/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lusikisiki Ref No: 61/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Tsolo Ref No 62/25EC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Madikwe Ref No: 25/24/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Bafokeng Ref No: 25/24/NW (X1 Post)
60
Magistrate Office: Lehurutshe Ref No: 25/24/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting or equivalent
qualification in the field of languages OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; A Minimum of three years practical experience
in court interpreting; and A valid driver’s license; Proficiency in English and in two
or more indigenous languages. Language proficiency for Eastern Cape:
Preference will be given to languages used in area, Xhosa, Afrikaans, Sotho and
sign language; Applicants will be subjected to a language test); Skills and
Competences: Good communication skills, Listening, Interpersonal relation
Problem solving; Planning and organising; Analytical thinking skills; Time
management; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas; Render interpreting services. Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Perform specific line and administrative support functions;
Perform specific line and administrative support functions; Assist with capturing
on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Ms Msimang Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7136
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the
address provided on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office,
Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East
London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 26/93 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATORS: (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Alice Ref No: 66/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Peddie Ref No: 67/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Tsolo Ref No: 68/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Whittlesea Ref No: 69/25EC (Will also be responsible to work
at other offices in the district as required) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mitchells Plain Ref No: 15/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lichtenburg Ref No: 25/VA25/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Randburg Ref No: 2025/26/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Soshanguve Ref No: 2025/27/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification; relevant administrative
experience and in family law matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competences: Computer literacy (MS Office);
Numeracy skills; Communication skills (verbal and written); Ability to work with
the public in a professional and empathetic manner; Explain legal terminology
and processes in simple language; Time management; Facilitation skills;
Innovation and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve maintenance summons, subpoenas, warrants
and garnishee orders for District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of persons; Give testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr. Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7135
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
Gauteng: Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag
X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
61
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Provincial Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical
Address: Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 26/94 : COURT INTERPRETERS (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement).
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Wynberg Ref No:16/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kuilsriver Ref No: 17/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Clanwilliam Ref No:18/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Port Elizabeth Nerina House Ref No 57/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Port Elizabeth Ref No 58/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Zwelitsha Ref No 59/25ec (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Mdantsane Ref No 60/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mount Frere Ref No 61/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Brits Ref No: 25/23/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mankwe Ref No: 25/23/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Rustenburg Ref No: 25/23/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Klerksdorp Ref No: 25/23/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and one
or more indigenous languages. Skills and Competences: Communication skills;
Listening skills; Interpersonal skills; Time management; Computer literacy;
Analytical thinking; Problem solving; Planning and organising; Confidentiality;
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Eastern Cape: Ms Msimang Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7136
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag
X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Please Note: Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the
relevant reference Number Note: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
personnel vetting process”.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
POST 26/95 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X68 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 36/25EC (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Zwelitsha Ref No: 37/25EC (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Lady Frere Ref No: 38/25EC (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Mount Frere Ref No: 39/25EC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Uitenhage Ref No: 40/25EC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Indwe Ref No: 41/25EC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Cala Ref No: 42/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Tsolo Ref No: 43/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Humansdorp Ref No: 44/25EC (X1 Post)
62
Magistrate Office: Port Elizabeth (Gelvandale) Ref No: 45/25E (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mount Ayliff Ref No: 46/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Peddie Ref No: 47/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Elliotdale Ref No: 48/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Dutywa Ref No: 49/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Ngcobo Ref No: 50/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Maluti Ref No: 51/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: King Williams Town Ref No: 52/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Motherwell Ref No: 53/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Tabankulu Ref No: 54/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Port Alfred Ref No: 55/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Seymour Ref No: 56/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Brits Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Madikwe Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Bafokeng Ref No: 25/20/NW (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Swartruggens Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Rustenburg Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Koster Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Potchefstroom Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Gangesa Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Taung Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Master of High Court, Mahikeng Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Christiana Ref No: 25/20/NW (X1 Post)
Family Advocate Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/11/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Johannesburg Ref No:2025/12/GP (X7 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Pretoria Ref No: 2025/13/GP (X4 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Moretele Ref No: 2025/14/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Randburg Ref No: 2025/15/GP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Tembisa Ref No: 2025/16/GP (2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Soshanguve Ref No: 2025/17/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Bronkhorstspruit Ref No: 2025/18/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Germiston Ref No: 2025/19/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Alexandra Ref No: 2025/20/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Sebokeng Ref No: 2025/21/GP (X1 Post)
State Attorney Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/22/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Benoni Ref No: 2025/23/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Palmridge Ref No:2025/24/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mamelodi Ref No: 2025/25/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy
(MS Office); Good communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Good interpersonal relations; Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel administration
support within the component; Provide financial administration support services
in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Ms C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
Gauteng: Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the
address provided on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office,
Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East
London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Mahikeng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Gauteng: Quoting the Relevant Reference Number, Direct Your Application To:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
Address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th Floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
63
POST 26/96 : FAMILY LAW ASSISTANT REF NO: 2025/56/GP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years qualification in a Legal field and/or equivalent legal qualification;
knowledge in the functions of the Office of the Family Advocate, knowledge and
application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain Divorce Matters Act,
Children’s act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence Act, (inclusive of Hague
Convention on International Child Abduction). Skills and Competences:
Communication skills (written and verbal); Computer literacy (MS Office);
Mediation skills; Attention to detail; Conduct legal research; Good interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct screening interviews and parental
responsibilities and rights information sessions, Assist members of the public
with the completion of forms and queries, Assist the Family Advocate in
conducting customer satisfaction surveys and community outreach projects;
Support the Family Advocate with regards to matters on the court roll; Receive
and screen correspondence and draft responses on behalf of the Family
Advocate; Conduct mediations in disputes regarding Parental Responsibilities
and Rights.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Raadt Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/97 : AUDIO-VISUAL COORDINATOR: IT SYSTEMS SUPPORT REF NO:
25/80/IDS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Brigette Mabandla, Justice College
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Information
Technology/Communication/Media Productions/Audio Engineering/ Electronics;
2 years’ experience in audio-visual/life streaming platforms and technologies
environment; Understanding of lighting, sound, projection systems, network and
IT infrastructure related to AV systems; Knowledge and understanding of Public
Service Statutory frameworks, Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and
Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies: Concern for others; Creative
thinking; Citizen service orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship;
Organizational communication effectiveness; Problem analysis; Self-
management; Team membership; Technical proficiency; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide support in the classroom and events regarding
AV; Provide technical expertise regarding AV; Maintain and monitor daily
operations of AV equipment’s functionality; Maintain partnerships with relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P. Leshilo Tel No: (012) 357 8240
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical Address: Application
Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/98 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (CALL CENTRE SUPERVISOR) REF NO:
25/79/IDS
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Minimum of 3 years’ experience within the
clerical/ call centre environment; Knowledge and application of relevant Public
Service and Departmental legislation/prescripts/policies and procedures;
Knowledge of procedure and processes applied in Call Centre and Office
Management. Skills and Competencies: Communication (verbal and written)
64
skills; Computer literacy; Problem solving; Good interpersonal relations;
Planning and organizing; Proper usage of presentation equipment; Sound
organizational skills; Ability to correctly interpret relevant documentation; Basic
typing skills; People management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor the call center operation; Handle all escalated
complaints/ enquiries; Generate reports and conduct customer satisfaction
surveys; Supervise and render general clerical support services; Manage
human, financial and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Maeko Tel No: (012) 315 1996
APPLICATIONS : Address: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical
address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria. OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/99 : REGISTRY CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Pretoria Ref No: 2025/52/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kempton Park Ref No: 2025/53/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 (NQF level 4); No previous experience required. Skills Competencies:
Concern for others; Creative thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision
making; Diversity citizenship; Organisational communication effectiveness;
Problem analysis; Self-management; Teamwork; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide Registry Counter Services; Handle incoming
and Outgoing correspondence; Render an effective filing and Record
Management; Service; Operate Office Machines in Relation the Registry
function; Process documents for Archiving and/Disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/100 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (CALL CENTRE AGENT) REF NO: 25/78/IDS (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Knowledge and application of relevant
Public Service and Departmental legislation/prescripts/policies and procedures;
Knowledge of procedure and processes applied in Call Centre and Office
Management; Provisioning of Call Centre administration procedures and
processes; Knowledge of capturing, document tracking, storage and retrieval.
Skills and Competencies: Communication (verbal and written) skills; Computer
literacy; Problem solving; Good interpersonal relations; Planning and organizing;
Proper usage of presentation equipment; Sound organizational skills; Ability to
correctly interpret relevant documentation.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle all inbound and outbound calls; Resolve
customer queries through e-mail, walk-ins and other platforms; Provide
information for reporting and customer satisfaction purposes; Render general
clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Maeko Tel No: (012) 315 1996
APPLICATIONS : Address: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X 81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical
address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria. https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/101 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 33/2025/WC
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 66 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
65
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Appropriate experience as a telecom
operator. Skills and Competencies: Communication (written and verbal);
Computer literacy (MS Office); Good interpersonal skills; Good public relations
skills; Ability to work under pressure and to solve problems; Customer service
and document management.
DUTIES : Handle incoming and outgoing calls, transfer calls, take and convey messages;
Ensure that the switchboard is manned at all times; Attend to all other duties that
may be required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Nguyuza Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X 9171, Cape
Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town OR visit: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/102 : SECURITY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Kuilsriver Ref No: 31/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Vredendal Ref No: 32/2025/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; Knowledge of Physical Security procedures and processes, Safety
and Security Legislative Frameworks, PSIRA Grade C. Skills and Competencies:
Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving; Good interpersonal
relations; Planning and organizing skills; Computer literacy; Ability to operate
security equipment; Understanding of confidentiality in Government.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide access control; Improve safety in the building
or premises; Prohibit unauthorized items from entering or leaving the building or
premises; Watch CCTV cameras; Enroll staff on bio-metric system; Provide
access to staff coming to the premises over weekends.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X 9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town or to: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a personnel vetting process.”
POST 26/103 : CLEANER REF NO: 2025/59/GP
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Garankuwa
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET level 4. Skills and Competencies: Concern for others; Creative
thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making; Diversity Citizenship;
Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem analysis; Self-management;
Team membership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide cleaning service; Keep and maintain cleaning
materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address: Department
of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner Chambers, 94
Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/104 : MESSENGER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Protea Ref No: 2025/31/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Boksburg Ref No: 2025/32/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Ekangala Ref No: 2025/33/GP (X1 Post)
Family Advocate Palmridge Ref No: 2025/65/GP (X1 Post)
Family Advocate Pretoria Ref No: 2025/66/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET Level 4 qualification; A valid driver’s license. Skills and
Competencies: Interpersonal skills; Creative thinking; Customer service
66
orientation; Problem analysis; Self-management; Ability to work in a team;
Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render driver/ messenger support services; Collect,
deliver and serve documents; Distribute mail and parcels to the various offices;
Collect correspondence from respective government institutions; Transport
officials to various destinations; Render clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial
Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address: Department
of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner Chambers, 94
Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 26/105 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 2025/58/GP
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET level 4; Skills and Competencies: Concern for others; Creative
thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship;
Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem Analysis; Self-Management;
Team Membership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform general assistant work; Load and off load
furniture, equipment and any other goods to relevant destination; Clean
government vehicles; Clean relevant workstation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 Or Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
67
ANNEXURE G
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV ONLY
(with detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your
application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or
before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). Handwritten Z83 must
be completed in Block Letters. If the Z83 is not completed as prescribed your
application will not be accepted. All applications must reach the NPA on/or
before the closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed.
Documents should not be password protected, and ZIP files will be blocked.
The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. All applications must
reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA
uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed
applications. Please do not contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed
your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received. If you
have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the
closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not to
fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from
the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants Who Are Successful Must
Please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs. NB! All
employees considered for appointment to the Investigating Directorate Against
Corruption will be subject to a lifestyle audit and integrity vetting.
68
ERRATUM: Administrative Clerk: Supervisor (Pretoria: Head Office) with Ref
No: Recruit 2025/229 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated
09 May 2025 is hereby withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/106 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS (REGIONAL HEAD)
REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/390
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admitted Attorney and/or
Advocate. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate experience in managing motion proceedings.
Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or
criminal procedure. Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be added
advantage. Ability to act independently. Good interpersonal, analytical,
presentation and communication skills. Strong computer skills. Willing to travel
and able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Undertake litigation and supervision of litigation. Representing the state in all
courts. Conduct civil litigation regarding all aspects of the freezing and
forfeiture / confiscation of property / assets derived from criminal activity. Draft
applications. Prepare heads of arguments and present cases in court. Train
and provide mentorship and guidance to staff. Assist in managing the regional
office.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025390@npa.gov.za
POST 26/107 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/391
Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2025/392
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or any appropriate legal qualification for serving prosecutors. At least
ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or criminal litigation.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Admitted Attorney and/or Advocate. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Demonstrate experience in managing motion proceedings. Good advocacy
and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure.
Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be added advantage. Ability to act
independently. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills. Strong computer skills. Willing to travel and able to work
extended hours. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Undertake litigation and supervision of litigation. Representing the state in all
courts. Conduct civil litigation regarding all aspects of the freezing and
forfeiture / confiscation of property / assets derived from criminal activity. Draft
applications. Prepare heads of arguments and present cases in court. Train
and provide mentorship and guidance to staff. Assist in managing the regional
office.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria e mail: Recruit2025391@npa.gov.za
Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2025@392npa.gov.za
POST 26/108 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/393
Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/394 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
69
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To guide investigations and conduct prosecutions of identified cases. To
exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute, and to give any necessary
advice and report to the Head of the SCCU. To ensure that decisions to
prosecute or not prosecute comply with all relevant legal prescripts, the
Constitution, and all applicable policies, procedures and directive. To provide
high level and well researched opinions and reports to the Head of the SCCU.
To manage and direct governance and operations in the SCCU. To monitor and
review strategy and operations. To provide enterprise performance reports. To
liaise with regional offices and arrange meetings in this regard. To render
professional advice to the Head of the SCCU, as required. To ensure that plans
are in place to promote good stakeholder and partner engagement. To ensure
that the national strategy and annual plan of the SCCU are developed and
implemented. To monitor delivery of the regional offices in line with the strategy
and plan. In order to ensure that the regional offices meet targets, to
continuously analyse, review and monitor operational performance of the
offices in order, inter alia, to identify and operational deficiencies and to monitor
the achievement of strategic objectives and annual targets. To develop any
performance or delivery improvement plans or make such interventions as
circumstances may require. To oversee the development and implementation
of appropriate employee performance management systems. To initiate and
implement training initiative by establishing training needs both at national and
regional levels. To meet with relevant stakeholders on a regular basis in order
to effectively execute the mandate of SCCU.
ENQUIRIES : Mthatha Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
Pretoria Lerato Rakale Tel No: (012) 351 6756
APPLICATIONS : Mthatha e mail: Recruit2025393@npa.gov.za
Pretoria e mail: Recruit2025394@npa.gov.za
POST 26/109 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
Sexual Offences and Community Affairs
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office Ref No: Recruit 2025/395
Durban Ref No: Recruit 2025/396
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Admission as an Attorney/Advocate will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good advocacy and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of criminal procedure. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation
and communication skills. General management and project management
skills. In depth and extensive knowledge of the law and management of gender
based violence related matters, sexual offences matters, domestic violence
matters, child justice matters, maintenance related matters and trafficking in
persons matters. Knowledge and application of relevant legislation, regulations
and policies relating to the aforementioned. Knowledge of the PFMA and
financial management skills. Good planning skills, including administrative,
organisational and project management skills. Skills in public awareness
initiatives and stakeholder management. Skills in research and development
of training material in related fields of the SOCA Unit mandate. Knowledge of
strategic planning and operational implementation of initiatives. Good verbal
and written communication skills. General computer literacy in MS Word,
Teams, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolios assigned by the Special Director. Liaison and
management of relevant stakeholders. Manage, train and guide SOCA
provincial and cluster managers, prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters relating to the SOCA mandate. Provide prosecutor guided
investigations and prosecute cases when requested to do so by the Special
Director. Study case dockets and other documents relating to SOCA mandate,
70
representations and to make and review decisions with regard to the institution
of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court, appear in appeals and
reviews on the instruction of Special Director. Prepare court opinions. Map out
and implement strategic planning for the Unit and lead staff members to
achieve strategic objectives. Development, performance management and
assessment of staff members. Deal with the representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Initiate and coordinate
public awareness campaigns and related training sessions. Oversight of TCC
sites in the province. Assist in budget planning and donor funding
management. Represent the NPA on SOCA mandate related matters with the
media on request of the Special Director. Quality control of statistics and
performance management in relation to SOCA mandate. Compile reports as
and when requested or required by the SOCA mandate for submission.
Perform any other task the Special Director deems to be necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Sandra ReddyTel No: (012) 845 6670
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Head Office e mail: Recruit2025395@npa.gov.za
Durban e mail: Recruit2025396@npa.gov.za
POST 26/110 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mmabatho Ref No: Recruit 2025/397
DPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/398
DPP: Mpumalanga Ref No: Recruit 2025/399
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director which will include oversight of
strategic management and operations management in the region. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to corruption
matters, criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard to the
institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the
acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and
other court documents. Present the state’s case in court, including examination
and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction
and sentence. Study appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of
argument and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the
division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Deal with
representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional
work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community involvement
and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Mmabatho Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
DPP: Pretoria Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
DPP: Mpumalanga Tel No: (013) 045 0622
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Mmabatho e mail: Recruit2025397@npa.gov.za
DPP: Pretoria e mail: Recruit2025398@npa.gov.za
DPP: Mpumalanga e mail: Recruit2025399@npa.gov.za
71
POST 26/111 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/400
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pretoria (Tax Unit)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Sound
knowledge and understanding of SARS functions and financial accounting
background. Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Strong organisational
leadership skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to think
strategically and innovatively and management. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the Constitutional Court. Studying and research law, enquiring and dockets
relating to crimes and advising and decisions thereon. Instituting and
conducting criminal proceedings in any court, including drawing up charge
sheets and indictments, interviewing prospective witnesses and examining and
cross-examining witnesses as well as presenting arguments in court and argue
cases. Consult on a regular basis with all relevant stakeholders and SARS
officials. Manage and keep SARS records for all criminal prosecutions and
statistics. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff members
towards achieving strategic objectives. Development, performance
management and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and
complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried
out. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025400@npa.gov.za
POST 26/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/401
Office for Ethics and Accountability
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate
experience in managing motion proceedings. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Ability to act
independently. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills. Strong computer skills. People Management and
Empowerment; Strategic Capability and Leadership; Project and Programme
Management; Financial Management and Head Investigations. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to public service administration, including
the Public Service Act 103 of 1994, NPA Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Service Regulations 2016, Public Finance Management Act, No.1
of 1999, Protected Disclosures Act 26 of 2000, Public Administration
Management Act 11 of 2014. General computer literacy skills, MS word,
PowerPoint, Excel, etc; specifically, MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint.
Very good with time management, analysis, written and verbal communication
skills. People management skills, and interpersonal relations. Ability to think
independently, innovatively and proven ability to work under pressure. Willing
to travel extensively. Candidates to be appointed in or assigned to the OEA
must disclose to the Office particulars of all registrable financial interests,
72
obtain security clearance following a vetting conducted in terms of the National
Strategic Intelligence Act, 1994 as well as a Lifestyle review conducted. No
previous convictions or pending cases. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage, guide and oversee complaints investigations. Oversee complaints
allocated to the division and examine source evidence and performance
analysis. Liaise with law enforcement agencies with regard to the referral of
cases of unethical conduct, Ensure delivery of strategic objectives and
performance targets as per the Annual Performance Plan. Manage, guide and
oversee fraud and corruption investigations within the NPA, Ensure the
investigation of fraud and corruption investigations within the NPA. Ensure the
investigation of fraud and corruption, unethical conduct, irregular expenditure,
financial misconduct and hotline related cases are conducted. Perform risk
assessments and identify issues related to fraud and corruption. Liaise with
Labour Relations Unit and other units to ensure speedy resolution of reported
cases. Manage the development of complaints management policies and
protocols. Monitor the implementation of complaints management policies and
protocols. Oversee and manage ad-hoc investigation research. Human
resource management of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Karen Van Rensburg Tel No: (012) 845 6871
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025401@npa.gov.za
POST 26/113 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/402
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate
experience in managing motion proceedings. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Knowledge of
Labour Relations Act. Access to information Act, Legal Administration,
Knowledge of NPA and NPS policies and procedures relevant to the job
functions. Ability to apply technical /professional knowledge and skills.
PRECCA, POCA, CPA51/177, Interpretation Act 33/1957. Performance
Management. Superior Court Act 10/2013 and all rules of courts specifically in
the superior court including the Constitution Court. Knowledge and experience
in money laundering and complex corruption cases. Knowledge of State
Capture recommendations and offences related threats. Preferred knowledge
of FATF. People and Programme Management and Empowerment, Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Project Management. Financial Management and
head investigations Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director: Investigating Directorate
Against Corruption. Decide representations. Decide whether investigations
should be authorized or declined in accordance with chapter 5 of NPA Act 32
of 1998. Lead the investigations and manage the operational, investigative,
and prosecution team. Draft and manage the summons process. Lead
enquiries in respect of summonsed persons. Make application for
centralization. Make application for the addition of racketeering charges. Make
applications for extradition, draft all necessary process, and engage with
foreign authorities. Make applications for mutual legal assistance, draft all
necessary process, and engage with foreign authorities. Liaise with the Asset
Forfeiture Unit (AFU) to effect AFU process in relevant cases including
international asset recovery. Liaise with the Witness Protection Unit (WPU)
where necessary. Engage with internal and external stakeholders. Study,
manage, and check voluminous and complex criminal cases and decide
whether the matter is ready for the institution of prosecution. Draft and check
charge sheets and indictments. Draft and manage: the prosecution strategy
plan, witness plan, exhibits plan, and docket security plan. Conduct
prosecutions in regional or high court from enrolment to finalization including
bail, motion applications, pre-trial conferences, conducting of the trial, lodging
of state appeals, responding to appeals by the accused, and arguing
73
constitutional court matters where necessary. Appear and argue in motion
court, the Supreme Court of Appeal, and Constitutional Court as necessary.
Participate on stakeholder forums, case management forums, and any other
forums on instruction by the Investigating Director. Formulate opinions on novel
questions of law, and other legal matters. Prepare applications or reply to
motions and argue in motion court. Respond to parliamentary queries when
requested. Formulate and/ comment on prosecution policies and/ or directives.
Manage and supervise staff including mentoring, coaching, the provision of
legal guidance, performance management, individual skills assessment, skills
transfer, ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out,
improvement of service delivery, ensure adherence to professional code of
conduct and ethical standards, and the achievement of the units strategic
objectives. Adherence to the highest ethical standards and professional
conduct in keeping with the LPC, NPA values, and the International Standards
of Prosecution and prosecutors.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025402@npa.gov.za
POST 26/114 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS (TRC) EF NO: RECRUIT
2025/416
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Experience or knowledge in TRC matters and related legislation will be an
added advantage. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Extensive knowledge of civil and/or criminal
procedure. Proficiency in MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint, and MS Teams is
required. Ability to act independently without constant supervision. Must have
good administrative skills. Must be able to work under pressure, which may
involve long working hours. An overall understanding of the work of all the NPS
units will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal, analytical, problem
solving, presentation and communication skills. General management skills.
Computer skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the DNDPP or the supervisor. Manage, train
and guide Advocates, Prosecutors, dedicated TRC investigators and
stakeholders in respect of all TRC matters, including complex / high profile
matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and the constitutional
court. Study and consider the TRC recommendations (including relevant
volumes of the TRC and its final report, related articles, video clips and records
and all exhibits and documents handed in at the TRC hearings, inquest and
trial proceedings) pertaining to allocated TRC matters. Investigate and
prosecute cases and manage all TRC matters. Draft documents pertaining to
access to crime scenes, court documents, documents and exhibits in
possession of other departments, universities, non-governmental
organisations and any other assistance as may be required by investigators.
Conduct research, prepare reports, draft legal opinions, policies, legislation,
legal documents and attend to representations and complaints arising out of
the TRC matters. Make legal decisions in accordance with the law, NPA policies
and directives. Assist with the preparation of charge sheets/indictments where
applicable. Cooperate and engage with all relevant stakeholders and
colleagues pertaining to TRC matters. Represent the NPA in stakeholder
engagements and projects. Monitor, analyse and report on performance
information and statistics. Map out strategic planning for the office and lead
staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Ensure that a
high standard of professional work is being carried out. Assist with the
development of strategic, operational and implementation plans. Perform other
ad hoc assignments as required by the DNDPP and/or supervisor.
74
ENQUIRIES Gija Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 845 6944
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025416@npa.gov.za
POST 26/115 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/417
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 032 906 - R1 675 743 per annum (Level SU-3), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025417@npa.gov.za
POST 26/116 : SENIOR PROTECTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/403
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (MMS Level 11), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF6). Must have at least
six (6) years’ experience in the field of the post. Must have police, military, or
correctional service basic training. Must have successfully completed a VIP
and/or Close Protection course. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. High level of
understanding of and competency in people protection. Knowledge and
experience of undercover work will be added advantage. Must be competent
in at least two (2) official languages of which one must be English. Must be
prepared to be available 24/7 and travel extensively, even after-hours. Know
how to account for public funds according to the PFMA. Knowledge of Asset
Management in the Public service, Knowledge of the Constitution and Bill of
Rights, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Victims Charter, and Batho Pele
Principles. Sound knowledge the Witness Protection Act, 1998, Firearm control
Act and Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Sound knowledge of the Public Service
Act and Regulations, the PFMA, 1999 and Treasury Regulations. Sound
knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information Standards (MISS). Must be
prepared to undergo a Top-Secret security clearance, a regular polygraph and
voice stress analysis test. Strategic capability and leadership. General
management skills. People management and empowerment. Administration
skills. Good communication skills. Planning and Prioritizing. Customer Focus
and Responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide services regarding to the admission of witnesses and
related persons. Verify admission documents and subject documents to quality
assurance. Ensure the safe removal of witnesses and related persons from
immediate danger area. Supervise the coordination of the protection and safety
of witnesses and related persons. Ensure and monitor the management of
witnesses and/or related persons and conduct visits. Assist with sourcing of
safe houses and conducting of site surveys. Ensure sound Operational
75
Financial and Asset management. Compile operational mandates, ensure
compliance in the execution of operations, and safekeeping of the documents.
Oversee and manage court protections. Ensure that all reports operational
returns, claims, etc. are correctly completed and handed in within the specified
time frames. Maintain relations and liaise regularly with Stakeholders. Liaise
with investigating officers, prosecuting services and any other Stakeholders to
ensure fast tracking of court cases and to address challenges with case-flow.
Conduct inspections on witness files, assets, fleet, accommodation, firearms
and ammunition. Handle grievances of staff and witnesses Manage
subordinates and ensure compliance with all administrative and personnel
prescripts. Conduct performance management of subordinates and deal with
disciplinary matters in terms of the LRA.
ENQUIRIES : CH Loots Tel No: (041) 045 0402
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025403@npa.gov.za
POST 26/117 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/404
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Port Elizabeth (Makhanda)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Andiswa Tengile Tel No: (012) 842 1450
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: Recruit2025404@npa.gov.za
POST 26/118 : PROTECTOR
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2025/406
Mpumalanga (Witbank) Ref No: Recruit 2025/407 (X3 Posts)
Free State (Bloemfontein) Ref No: Recruit 2025/408 (X3 Posts)
Eastern Cape (Gqeberha) Ref No: Recruit 2025/405 (Re-advert) (X5 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF6). Must have at least
five (5) years’ experience in the field of the post. Must have police, military, or
correctional service basic training. Must have successfully completed a
SWAT/VIP Protection course or Tactical Policing Training. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge and experience of undercover work will be added
advantage. Must be competent in at least two official languages of which one
must be English. Must be prepared to be available 24/7 and travel extensively,
even after-hours. Know how to account for public funds according to the PFMA.
Knowledge of Asset Management in the Public service, Knowledge of the
Constitution and Bill of Rights, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Victims
Charter, and Batho Pele Principles. Sound knowledge the Witness Protection
Act, 1998, Firearm control Act and Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Sound
knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations, the PFMA, 1999 and
Treasury Regulations. Sound knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information
Standards (MISS). Must be prepared to undergo a Top-Secret security
clearance, a regular polygraph and voice stress analysis test. Strategic
capability and leadership. General management skills. People management
76
and empowerment. Administration skills. Good communication skills. Planning
and Prioritizing. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Problem solving and
decision making. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide services regarding the admission of witnesses. Apply risk
management to avoid potential threats and apply counter surveillance
techniques. Handle and monitor Section 204 witnesses. Manage and protect
witnesses and related persons and ensure their safety and wellbeing. Attend
to day-to-day needs of witnesses and / or related persons. Render operational
services during Court protections, consultations, and other planned operations.
Render administrative and financial support services. Compile operational
documents. Compile reports and apply proper record keeping on all witness
related matters. Provide Asset management support services. Liaise and build
relationships with Stakeholders and all role players. Monitor the status of cases
and arrangements for consultations and court protections. Engage with
medical and counselling professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Johannesburg & Mpumalanga (Witbank) S Davids Tel No: (012) 845 6616
Free State (Bloemfontein) C Immelman Tel No: (051) 410 6162
Eastern Cape (Gqeberha) CH Loots Tel No: (041) 045 0402
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2025406@npa.gov.za
Mpumalanga (Witbank) e mail: Recruit2025407@npa.gov.za
Free State (Bloemfontein) e mail: Recruit2025408@npa.gov.za
Eastern Cape (Gqeberha) e mail: Recruit2025405@npa.gov.za
POST 26/119 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/409
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Business Administration / Public Administration / Finance or equivalent.
Minimum three (3) years relevant experience working in Finance. Knowledge
of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations
and Public Service Act. Knowledge of NPA policies and procedures relevant to
the job functions. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Strategic capability and
leadership, general management skills, people management and
empowerment, administrative skills, communication skills, ability to plan and
prioritize work, customer focus and responsiveness, problem solving and
decision making. Ability to meet strict deadlines. Computer skills - MS Office
suite including Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Take responsibility for the management of the finances including cash
management. Monitor expenditure and ensure correct inputs in respect of
regional budget. Perform physical bank withdrawals and deposits. Ensure
proper document management and processing of all payments and
transactions of covert accounts. Manage cash book and petty cash. Manage
the provisioning of traveling and Responsible for financial reporting. Assist with
Asset, Fleet and Facility management. Conduct assessment on individual staff.
ENQUIRIES : S Davids Tel No: (012) 845 6616
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025409@npa.gov.za
POST 26/120 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET, FLEET AND FACILITY REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/410
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Business Administration / Public Administration / Finance or equivalent.
Three (3) years supervisory experience in Administration. In depth knowledge
of the Public Service Act, Regulations, and its application. Experience in Asset,
Fleet and Facilities management, internal control, and risk management.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Experience in leasing of properties and lease
contract management. Knowledge of Witness Protection Act. Knowledge of
Supply Chain Management Framework, Public Finance Management Act and
National Treasury Practice Notes. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to public service administration specifically the Public Service Act,
77
Labour Relations Act, EEA, Skills Development Act. Knowledge of the
Constitution, Batho Pele and MISS document. Knowledge of Performance
Management. Execution, interpretation and recommendations on policies and
procedures Strategic capability and leadership, general management skills,
people management and empowerment, administrative skills, communication
skills, ability to plan and prioritize work, customer focus and responsiveness,
problem solving and decision making. Computer skills - MS Office suite
including Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage office and operational assets, fleet, and facilities. Manage
procurement services. Office Administration and Document Management.
Compiling of the Asset Management and Procurement plans. Assist to monitor
expenditure and ensure correct inputs in respect of regional budget. Perform
physical bank withdrawals end deposits when needed. Perform electronic
banking transactions. Assist to manage cash book and petty cash. Conduct
Performance management with individual staff reporting to the position, Work
under pressure and ensure adherence to timelines.
ENQUIRIES : C Immelman Tel No: (051) 410 6162
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025410@npa.gov.za
POST 26/121 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/411
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6).
Minimum two years relevant experience in performing general administrative
functions. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs such as MS Word, Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of
the PFMA Act, Treasury regulations and other government related legislations.
Able to handle and record cash transactions and know how to account for
public funds according to the PFMA. Knowledge of Accounting and Asset
Management. Good Communication, liaison and presentation skills. Ability to
act with tact and discreet. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Good
administration skills. Planning and prioritizing skills. Willing to undergo security
clearance. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide asset support services. Provide administrative support to fleet
management. Provide administrative support to asset and facilities
management. Document and office management support and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : CH Loots Tel No: (041) 045 0402
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025411@npa.gov.za
POST 26/122 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/412
National Prosecuting Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6). Minimum two years’ relevant experience in Administration. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Sound planning and organizing skills, written and verbal
communication skills. Knowledge of how to manage documents registry will be
an added advantage. Computer skills in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and
Outlook. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act
independently. Ensure compliance with NPA Policies and guidelines and all
relevant prescripts. Basic numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and render administrative support services to the Representations
unit. Supervise and provide personnel administration services within the
component. Assess staff performance. Update the relevant register. Allocate
and ensure quality of work. Ensure proper maintenance of files, pending files,
correct referencing of all incoming mail/documents and keep proper record of
movements of files within the office. Opening and closing files according to the
record classification system and proper filling of documents both electronical
and manual. Handling telephone and other enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Gija Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 845 6944
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025412@npa.gov.za
78
POST 26/123 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/413
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Financial Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three
(3) years’ experience in rendering support service to senior management.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy. Language skills
and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
background. Good telephone etiquette and sound organisational skills. Good
people skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to do
research and analyse documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Knowledge of the relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and
procedures applicable in the public sector. Basic knowledge of financial
administration.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager. Renders
administrative support services. Supports the manager with the administration
and monitoring of the budget. Ensure that the relevant government and NPA
prescripts and/or policies adhere when dealing with submissions. Managing
diary and travel bookings of the manager. Maintain effective filing and retrieval
system. Draft relevant memos and obtain necessary approval. Procure office
supplies. Manage leave and performance reports of managers reporting
directly to the Chief Director.
ENQUIRIES : Morongwa Moreana Tel No: (012) 845 6107
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025413@npa.gov.za
POST 26/124 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/414
Strategy, Operations and Compliance
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Minimum three
(3) years’ experience in rendering support service to senior management.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy. Language skills
and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
background. Good telephone etiquette and sound organisational skills. Good
people skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to do
research and analyse documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Knowledge of the relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and
procedures applicable in the public sector. Basic knowledge of financial
administration.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/administrative support service to the DDG: Corporate
Services (CS). Provide secretarial support role in meetings chaired by the
DDG: CS, where required. Provide support to DDG:CS regarding scheduling
of meetings and other engagements. Support the DDG with the administration
of the office. Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly. Conducts research on specific administration issues as
required by the DDG:CS. Assist the DDG:CS in all functions delegated to the
office as delegated Accounting Officer for NPA. Provide support in all other
incidental roles in the office of the DDG: CS as determined from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Morongwa Moreana Tel No: (012) 845 6107
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025414@npa.gov.za
POST 26/125 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/415
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Able to type. Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Integrity, reliable, tolerant, and determined. Ability to identify and
handle highly confidential matters. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel;
79
PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the public services.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025415@npa.gov.za
80
ANNEXURE H
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand)/ Constitutional Court: Braamfontein/ Judicial
Support Services: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, cape Town
Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent
5242, East London
Bloemfontein: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X20612,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High Court,
Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Pietermaritzburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X 20051,
Mbombela 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to, Mpumalanga
Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial Service Centre,
311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
ERRATUM: Admin Clerk: DCRS with Ref No: 2025/170/OCJ based in the
Western Cape published on Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 04 July
2025 with the closing date 18 July 2025, have been withdrawn. Apologies for
any inconvenience caused
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialled on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualifications of the application during the selection process. Applications
on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual
citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
81
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/126 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/190/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Service Centre: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor’ Degree in
Human Resources Management or equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6 with
360 credits as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years relevant
experience in Human Resources Management and Administration. Three (3)
years’ experience with a minimum of one (1) year at supervisory level in HRM
and related fields. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
and understanding of relevant Human Resources Management
Legislation/Directives and Policies must be able to understand/interpret
policies and implement strategies. Extensive knowledge of the PERSAL
system. Formal PERSAL training. (shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit PERSAL certificates/results). Computer literacy (MS Office). Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Good people
management/interpersonal relations. Exceptional report writing skills. Ability to
work long hours when required. The ability to work under pressure and adhere
to deadlines. Be self-motivated. Attention to detail. Problem solving and
maintaining discipline. Commitment and integrity. Confidentiality and
professionalism. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate HRM administration matters within the Department, to
contribute to the rendering of a professional Human Resource Management
services with respect to conditions of service and benefits, leave, housing,
medical aid, injury on duty, termination, long service recognition, overtime,
relocation, pension, allowances. HR provisioning (Recruitment and selection,
appointment, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at
interviews etc). Implement and manage the Performance Management and
Development system in the province. Responsible for the facilitation and
coordination of Labour Relations, Employee Wellness and Learning and
Development in the Province. Address Human Resources Administration
enquiries and manage all PERSAL transactions. Ensure the correct
implementation of Departmental/Public Service policies on matters related to
Human Resources Management and adherence to the relevant prescripts/
legislations. Inform, guide and advice relevant stakeholders on Human
Resources administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
Personnel administration practices/policies. Manage and administer policy and
82
procedures on incapacity leave and ill-health retirement (PILIR) in the
Department. Manage the HRM Registry services and records management.
Prepare and consolidate reports. Human resources management
administration issues.
ENQUIRIES : Technical / HR Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/190/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 26/127 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO:
2025/191/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Environmental Health, Safety management or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) field / related experience of which one
(1) year should be on a supervisory level. Registration with SAIOSH or relevant
statutory body required. Knowledge Requirements: Competent knowledge of
the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Competent knowledge of the SHERQ
Framework, Emergency Planning and Standard Operating Procedures.
Thorough knowledge of Hazards Identification and Risk Assessment. Working
knowledge of committee proceedings. Competencies Skills: Client Service
Orientation. Effective communication. Commitment to Learning. Problem
solving and analysis. Concern for quality and order. Computer literacy. Security
management. Emotional intelligence. Team participation. Valid Drivers' license
as the job will entail extensive travelling and the successful incumbent must be
willing to work long hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development, reviews and implementation of the Policy on OHS
and other related policies: Draft OHS Annual Plan and schedule. Draft OHS
policy and send to all employees for their inputs. Develop and manage a fully
sustainable health and safety program for the department: Establish and
maintain fully functional health and safety committees Facilitate nomination
process of H&S Representatives and committee. Ensure availability of H&S
Reps in each location. Keep records of designation letters and certificates.
Facilitate training of Health and Safety Reps. Schedule monthly meetings of
the Health and Safety Committees. Provide secretariat services for OHS
Committees. Develop and implement an incident management system:
Establish and maintain an incident and accident management system. Keep
record and report of incident and accident management system. Provision of
first aid assistance when necessary and manage register. Conduct
investigation on incidents/accidents and keep records. Provide necessary
forms to employees when necessary. Hazard identification and risk
assessment: Develop standardized inspection checklist. Conduct
Daily/Weekly/Monthly inspections. Conduct evacuation drills to ensure safety
of employees. Communicate findings of inspections to the building owner and
corrective actions to be taken. IOD Management and liaise with the
Commissioner for Compensation. Supervise staff: Allocate work. Train and
develop employees. Supervise maintenance and cleaning services. Liaison
with building maintenance at all sites/offices.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr S Phaladi Tel No: (010) 493 2658
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 2500/2533
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/191/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/128 : PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2025/192/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate and a three-year National Diploma / Degree in Library
Science or an equivalent qualification at a NQF6 level. Knowledge of Library
and information Science Matters, prescripts and Legislation, procedure and
processes and Library Services, A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Library
and Information Systems, Experience in a legal library will serve as an added
83
advantage, Skills and Competencies: Planning, Organizing and Control, Good
written and oral communication skills, Problem solving and decision making
skills, Customer Service, Interpersonal Skills, Information Technology, Ability to
work under pressure, Language proficiency, Conflict management, Supervisor
Skills.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient Library and Information services to the users
of the library, Manage the Library and information systems, Assist with book
selection for the Library and/or Chambers, Classify and Catalogue the Western
Cape Division of the High Court’s Library Material, Render reference and
information service for the Western Cape Divisions of the High Court’s Library,
Monitor the Library budget and give inputs to the library budget, Market and
Promote the Library Services, Perform Administration and Supervisory
Service, Perform any other court related work required to improve the efficiency
of the Western Cape Division of the High Court, Perform asset management
i.e. library books.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/192/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/129 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/193/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12. One (1) year’s secretarial experience or as an office assistant in a
legal environment. A valid driver’s license. An LLB degree will serve as an
advantage. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test. Skills
and Competencies: Proficiency in English. Good communication skills (verbal
and written). Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal
skills. Ability to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to
detail. Customer service skills. Confidentiality and time management.
Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities with legal databases
including Jutastat Publications, LexisNexis, South African Legal Information
Institute (SAFLII), Sabinet Legal and Hein Online.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administration duties to the Judge. Typing (or
Formatting) of draft memorandum decisions, opinions or judgments entries
written by or assigned by the Judge. Manage and type correspondence and
judgments and court order for the Judge. Conduct legal research. Arrange and
Diarize appointments, meetings and official visits and make travel and
accommodation arrangements. Update files and documents and provide
copies of documents to the Registrar. Store, keep and file court records safely.
After case has been completed and opinion, decision or Judgment made,
perform digital recording of court proceedings on urgent cases after hours and
ensure the integrity of such recordings. Manage the Judges ‘vehicle logbook,
and the driver thereof. Compile Data and prepare reports and documents for
the Judge as necessary including expense reports, continuing legal hours,
financial disclosure statements and case management. Arrange refreshments
for the Judge and her visitors and attend to their needs.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms. C Martin Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7585
HR enquiries: Ms K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/ 7574
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/193/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/130 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/194/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of the High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of grade twelve (12) and ten (10) years’
practical experience in court interpreting or a 3 year National Diploma (NQF 6)
in Legal interpreting or equivalent qualification on NQF Level 6 (360 credits)
and a minimum of three (3) years practical experience in court Interpreting.
Proficiency in English, Afrikaans, Siswati, Xitshonga, Sepedi and Zulu
84
candidates will be required to undergo oral written language proficiency testing.
A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication skills (written and verbal), computer literacy (MS
Office), good interpersonal skills, ability to work to work under pressure and
solve problems, Accuracy and attention to detail, customer service. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering interpreting services in criminal court, civil court, labour and
quasijudicial proceedings. Rendering interpreting services during
consultations. Translate legal documents and exhibits. Assist with
reconstruction of court records. Develop terminology, coin words. Perform
specific line and administrative support functions of the Judiciary, court
Manager and Supervisor as and when is required.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related Enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/ Mv Maeko Tel No: (013) 758
0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/194/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/131 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/195/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) or NQF Level 4 qualification, Computer literacy knowledge
of clerical duties and understanding of legal framework governing the public
service. Skills and competencies. Good communication skills (written and
verbal) Good interpersonal relations, customer service, interpersonal skills,
Problem solving skills. Customer service and attention to detail. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Type court orders, court documents, and reports. Type court orders and
relevant court documents in line with the endorsement on the front of the court
file. Type judgments. Make amendments on judgments as per the Judge’s
request/instruction. Compile term roll, week, and un/opposed motion roll and
maintain registers. Draft term rolls for each court term in line with the Gazette
terms. Compile and submit relevant orders and judgments to relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/195/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 26/132 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2025/196/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Possession of senior certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (vocational)
on the national learner record database pm MQF 4. A relevant experience
required, Basic Security Officer’s course registered with PSIRA. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act and
other security related legislations, Knowledge of the access control
procedures, Knowledge of measure for the control and movement of
equipment and stores, Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g. MIS,
NISA, Protection of Information Act etc.) and the authority of security officers
under these documents, Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures,
Batho Pele Principles. Interpersonal Skills, Client service skills, listening skills,
Problem solving skills, Decision making skills, Good Communication,
Computer skills, Facilitating skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions, ensure that equipment, document and store
do not leave or enter the building or premises unauthorized, operate control
room security equipment’s, ensure safety in the building and premises, Ensure
all incidents are recorded in the occurrence books/registers. Checking of
parcels and equipment leaving the building to ensure that there is an
85
authorised removal letter included. Monitor cameras and alert management to
any security risks. Monitor compliance by outsourced security service in terms
of postings, security equipment and security compliance in terms of the SLA;
Registering of employees, visitors and contractors, electronic searching of
employees, visitors and contractors; Patrol buildings and fenced off areas;
Guard vehicles and equipment. Ensure safekeeping of office/storeroom keys
and report any losses, damages or theft; Authorize entry into the premises to
employees. Bring any deficiencies or problems with regard to security matters
to the attention of senior security personnel. Perform any other duties assigned
to you by the Supervisor/Court Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032 or
Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2637
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/196/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
86
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quote the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at www.gov.za). Applicants
must fill in full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated
comprehensive CV (previous experience must be comprehensively detailed,
i.e. positions held and dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all
qualifications and ID document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the
post. All shortlisted candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics
will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended
candidates will also be required to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment after the interviews also take a note that National School of
Governance (NGS) has introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with
effect from 01 April 2020 as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior
Management Services (submitted prior to appointment) and can be accessed
through the following link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate must disclose to the Director-
General particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance
agreement and employment contract with the Director-General within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be
expected to be available for selection interviews and assessments at a time,
date and place as determined by the Department. An offer letter will only be
issued to the successful candidate once the following has been verified
educational qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks
and security vetting. Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into
with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 26/133 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOSAD CLUSTER REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/11
Branch: Office of the Director-General
Chief Directorate: Strategic Planning and Cluster Coordination
Directorate: Cluster Coordination
Sub-directorate: Cluster Coordination
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Management / Administration / Strategic Planning / Business Management /
Political Science / Policy Studies / Law with a minimum of 3 years’ experience
at a junior management or Assistant Director level in Government’s integrated
governance system. Driver’s license required. Knowledge And Skills:
knowledge and understanding of Government Integrated System. Knowledge
and expertise of strategic management process in government. Knowledge
and expertise of parliamentary & legislative process. Political awareness and
familiarity with senior government officials and politicians. Analytical skills,
compilation of management reports, communication – verbal & written
87
communication. Financial management skills. Strategic capability &
leadership. People management & empowerment. Project management skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate cluster participation and inputs into the cluster processes.
Coordinate DoT participation and inputs into cluster processes. Monitor and
evaluate the performance of programmes in relation to Government’s
Programme of Action (PoA) reporting cycle for the Clusters. Providing strategic
support to the Office of the Director-General (with reference to FOSAD Cluster
matters). Collate inputs and reports for all FOSAD (Forum of South Africa
Directors’-General) Cluster. Facilitate the development of strategic priorities for
DoT in liaison with the DoT workstream to be driven within the Economic
Sectors, Investment, Employment and Infrastructure. Development (ESIEID)
Cluster and FOSAD Clusters that DoT participate in (e.g. Justice Crime &
Security (JCPS), International Cooperation, Trade and Security (ICTS).
Manage follow-ups on matters that have a bearing on Clusters, FOSAD –
MANCO decisions. Coordinate the allocation and dissemination of information
with respect to cluster decisions. Coordinate the implementation of cabinet
resolutions. Develop the matrix on matters arising from Cabinet resolutions.
Draft Cabinet memoranda schedule and ensure adherence to the timelines.
Provide administrative support to ODG on Cabinet matters. Ensure compliance
on Cabinet Memoranda for submission to Cabinet and Presidency. Render
administrative support to DoT management on cabinet related matters. Liaise
with the Ministry on an on-going basis to ensure continuous compliance with
Cabinet and Cabinet Committees requirements and requests. Participate in
project teams to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach to meet set objectives
of the Department. Manage the planning and or implementation of projects.
Manage project resources, project budget and resource allocation. Manage the
resources of the sub-directorate. Provide guidance and adequate support for
and development of staff. Provide input in the establishment and maintenance
of the governance and administrative system’s continuity within the work of the
Directorate. Ensure management of the budget and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sibongile Maphuthoma Tel No: (012) 309 3980
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “Deputy Director:
FOSAD Cluster” on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department
of Transport is an equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department.
88
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/134 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: 080825/01
Branch: Water & Sanitation Services Management
Cd: Provincial Operations: Gauteng
Dir: Corporate Services Support (Human Resource Administration)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Human Resource Management/ Public
Management/ Public Administration. Three (3) to Five (5) years’ experience in
the field of Human Resource Management. One (1) to two (2) years of
supervisory experience will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a
valid unexpired drivers license. Extensive knowledge and understanding of
public service, collective agreement and other related legislation. Applicants
must be in possession of PERSAL certificates and working experience on the
PERSAL system. Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Knowledge and experience of recruitment, selection and appointments,
pension administration as well as condition of service matters, i.e. leave,
housing allowances, policy on incapacity leave, ill health retirement (PILIR),
upgrades, appointment and other allowances. Work under pressure. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : The supervision of pension administration unit, implementation of GEPF
regulations and processes, verify pension cases on PCM system. Maintenance
of database regarding condition of service-related matters. Maintenance of
applicable database in relation to Human Resource. Facilitate the
implementation of HR Policies, strategies, procedures and practices relating to
Human Resource Management. Provide advisory services to all regional staff,
line and senior management. Liaison with National Treasury and
Compensation Commissioner, Monitoring and evaluation of all HR Transaction
89
processes, supervision, training and motivation of staff. Draft adverts for
placement. Ensure that posts are advertised as per the specifications matched
with the job/role profiles. Response handling of applications. Ensure that
processing of detailed schedules of applications are implemented and kept on
a database. Keep records of the established detailed database of applications
received. Supply statistics regarding employment equity. Facilitate the
shortlisting processes. Arrange, schedule and facilitate the Interview
processes. Draft appointment submissions and route it for approval. Approve
transactions on PERSAL System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Daniel Masoga Tel No: (012) 392 1477
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 26/135 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A – C (MECHANICAL)
REF NO: 080825/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Dir Operations Southern
SALARY : R391 671 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering. Three (3) years post-
qualification technical mechanical experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired drivers license. Experience in
project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Familiar with
computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance,
technical report writing and technical consulting. Communication and problem-
solving skills. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Render technical services. Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field-, workshop- and technical office activities. Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings, and procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority. Manage refurbishment projects. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting
process as required. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering operational plan. Develop,
implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Moodley Tel No: (021) 941 6019
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 26/136 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (CIVIL
MAINTENANCE) REF NO: 010825/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Dir Operations Southern
SALARY : R391 671 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post-qualification
technical civil experience. Compulsory registration with the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired drivers license. Experience in project
management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Familiar with
computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance,
technical report writing and technical consulting. Communication and problem-
solving skills. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Render technical services. Assist Engineers, Technologists, and associates in
field-workshop- and technical office activities. Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings, and procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce
90
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority. Manage refurbishment projects. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting
process as required. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering operational plan. Develop,
implement, and maintain databases. Supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Moodley Tel No: (021) 941 6019
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
91
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer and to this end
has developed an Employment Equity Plan pursuant to the Employment Equity Act. Preference for the
filling of these posts will be guided by the Departmental Equity Plan and targets correlating to the posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference, should be forwarded as follows:
The Deputy Director: Human Resources Management, Free State Provincial
Treasury, Private Bag X20537, Bloemfontein, 9300. Attention: Ms. P Shabe,
Fidel Castro Building, Tel No: (051) 403 3092 or applications that are hand
delivered must be brought to the foyer of Fidel Castro Building where they must
be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security, Ground Floor, Fidel
Castro Building, Cnr. Markgraaff and Miriam Makeba Streets, Bloemfontein.
Applications may also be e-mailed to recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. P Shabe Tel No: (051) 403 3092
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on form the new Z.83
form (Updated version that came into effect on 1 January 2021), obtainable
from any Public Service Department and must only be accompanied by a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (Subjects of relevant qualification(s) should be
mentioned in the CV). The Curriculum Vitae should be specific regarding
previous positions occupied and the start date and end date of the position(s)
should be indicated. Applicants are requested to complete the Z83 form
properly and in full. The department name, post title and reference number of
the advertised post should be stated on the Z83. Only short-listed candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on, or before the day of the interview following an invitation from
the Department to attend an interview, and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) should be in line with the requirements of the
advertisement. For SMS posts in the Public Service, no appointment shall be
effected without the recommended candidate producing a Certificate of
completion for the Nyukela Programme (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) offered
by the National School of Government which can be accessed via the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will also be subjected to a
competency assessment, a practical test/exercise as well as an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Applications received after the closing date and
those that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered. The
onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are posted, hand
delivered or e-mailed timeously. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications
and/or short courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial assets check, qualification verification and reference checks). The
Department reserves the right not to make appointments on the advertised
post(s).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/137 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REF NO: FSPT 017/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7 or higher) in
Economics. A postgraduate qualification in Economics will be an added
advantage. Five (5) years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A
minimum of six (6) years relevant experience in economic research.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance
Management Act (MFMA), Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act and
Regulations, Social Accounting Matrix (SAMs), Computable General
92
Equilibrium (CGE) modelling, E-views, Stata, Statistical Package for the Social
Science (SPSS), General Equilibrium Modelling Package (GAMS/GEMPACK).
Must possess the following skills: Problem solving-, innovative-, good
interpersonal-, strategic capability & leadership-, and analytical skills.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Periodic analysis and update of provincial socio-economic indicators.
Coordinate and produce Provincial publications such as the Provincial
Economic Review and Outlook (PERO), Provincial Medium Term Budget Policy
Statement (MTBPS), Quarterly Labour Market Review (QLMR) and Municipal
Economic Review and Outlook (MERO). Conduct, publish and disseminate
research in lieu of policy development, planning, and the fiscal framework of
the province. Provide technical and strategic support in economic policy
research, analysis, and development. Maintain and expand existing databases
and information sources on the provincial economy and related social issues.
Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. E Lebone at 082 803 4075 (Office hours only)
NOTE : Employment Equity targets: African males and/or African females.
OTHER POST
POST 26/138 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: FSPT 018/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6) with a minimum
of three (3) years relevant experience. Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies, e.g. The Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literate in MS Word, Excel and Power Point.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director. Render
an administrative support service to the Chief Director. Provide support to the
Chief Director during meetings. Support the Chief Director with the
administration of the Chief Director’s budget. Study the relevant Public Service
and Departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure efficient
and effective support to the Chief Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PE Lebone at 082 803 4075 (Office hours only)
NOTE : Employment Equity targets: African males and/or African females
93
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at:
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za site or https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/.
Z83 and updated CV must be attached
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form, com
prehensive CV, only shortlisted candidates will submit certified documents.
Pre-entry SMS certificate is compulsory for appointment. The course can be
accessed by clicking on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za Applications must be
submitted on new z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or
on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The Completed and signed
form should be accompanied by a recently updated CV only specifying all
experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as indicating three
reference persons with the following information: name and contact number(s),
email address and an indication of the capacity in which the reference is known
to the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the interview date following communication from HR.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal
record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification, and employment
verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject to a positive
security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be subjected to a
security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo a Competency
Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
positions will be required to undergo two (2) technical tests (technical exercise
that intends to test the relevant technical elements of the job and the other
Integrity (ethical) Conduct Assessment). Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT)
reserves the right to utilise practical exercises / tests for non-SMS positions
and during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted will be
informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s).
GPT also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process. Prospective applicants
must please use the new Z83 which is effective as of 01 January 2021.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: PROVINCIAL SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023024
Directorate: Provincial Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package includes a basic
salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in Supply Chain
Management/Economics/Finance. 8 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial
level in Supply Chain Management or related field. The successful candidate
will have strong leadership skills, will be a team player at the executive level,
will have the ability to ‘sell’ supply chain management’s value. Will have in-
depth knowledge of sourcing and procurement principles and best practices,
strong negotiation skills, experience and knowledge of legislative and
regulatory requirements. Experience, knowledge and understanding of
standard contractual terms and conditions to mitigate legal risk. He/she must
94
have a strategic mindset and problem-solving skills with an ability to apply
varying approaches to a dynamic set of stakeholders. The position will perform
advisory and oversight role over provincial government departments,
municipalities and entities.
DUTIES : Perform an advisory and oversight role over provincial government
departments, municipalities and entities. Assist in the implementation of the
Strategic Plan of the Department and enable the turnaround of the province as
expressed in the 10 pillars. Manage and maintain the regulatory environment
relevant to government procurement practices. Effectively manage transversal
contracts so that cost savings and socioeconomic objectives are achieved.
Oversee and monitor procurement practices to ensure compliance with the
regulatory framework. Provide advisory services and implement initiatives that
will improve the capability of government procurement practitioners. Research,
develop and implement strategic procurement practices so that cost savings
and socioeconomic objectives are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za /060 387 4862
NOTE : The position is earmarked to address employment equity in terms of female
appointments at Senior Management level.
POST 26/140 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL SERVICES REF
NO: REFS/023025
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package includes a basic
salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management/
Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing/ Economics/ Cost Management or
Accounting. 5 years of working experience at senior managerial level in local
government in municipalities, municipal entities and or Provincial Treasuries
MFMA Units. 5 years of experience in Financial Management/ Accounting/
Auditing/Internal Auditing/ Economics/ Cost Management or Accounting.
DUTIES : Ensure strategic management of the chief directorate. Provide Strategic
oversight and support over financial assets and liabilities practices in
municipalities and municipal entities in line with the Municipal Finance
Management Act (MFMA) and the relevant MFMA Regulations. Ensure
Strategic oversight and support over municipal budgets and related processes
in line with the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) and the relevant
MFMA Regulations to ensure optimal financial resource allocation at all levels
of government and alignment of budgeting and integrated planning processes.
Provide Strategic monitoring and support over municipal revenue practices and
processes in municipalities and municipal entities to ensure compliance with
the Municipal Finance Management Act, the MFMA Regulations and other
related Legislations. Provide relevant strategic support to municipalities
pertaining to financial management practises. Ensure effective and strategic
intergovernmental relations (internally and externally).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za /060 387 4862
NOTE : The position is earmarked to address employment equity in terms of female
appointments at Senior Management level.
POST 26/141 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PERFORMANCE REF NO:
REFS/023026
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package includes a basic
salary 70% of package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Built
Environment or Finance or Commerce or Economics or Public Administration.
5 years’ experience at a Middle/ Senior Management level.
DUTIES : Promote and contribute to infrastructure funding frameworks and long-term
infrastructure planning in the province. Assess relevant provincial infrastructure
plans and budgets and provide expert infrastructure inputs and guidance.
Provide expert infrastructure inputs at relevant forums pertaining to Provincial
Departments and Provincial Public Entities. Promote, monitor and enforce the
95
transparent, economic, effective and efficient management in respect of
infrastructure expenditure of Provincial Departments and Provincial Public
Entities. Institutionalise the monitoring system for financial and performance
indicators related to infrastructure. Promote, monitor and enforce the optimal
utilisation and maintenance of infrastructure by the Provincial Custodians and
Users. People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za /060 387 4862
POST 26/142 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
REF NO: REFS/023027
Directorate: Municipal Accounting, Reporting and Asset Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package includes a basic
salary 70% of package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 in Financial Management / Accounting / Auditing / Internal Auditing
/ Cost Management / Cost Accounting. 5 years’ experience in Middle/ Senior
Management level in Financial Management/Accounting/Auditing/Internal
Auditing/Cost/ Management/Cost Accounting.
DUTIES : Manage and provide strategic leadership to the directorate. Provide leadership
with manage the monitoring of the implementation of the accounting standards
(GRAP and others) to ensure quality of the annual financial statements of
municipalities. Lead and manage the provision of accounting services and
support to municipalities and municipal entities. Lead and manage the
monitoring of Internal Audit Activities and Audit Committees within the
municipalities. Provide support and capacity building to municipality Internal
Audit Activities and Audit Committee. Effective participation in
intergovernmental relations structures (internally and externally).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za /060 387 4862
NOTE : The position is earmarked to address employment equity in terms of female
appointments at Senior Management level.
96
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment
will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental
Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic Development
and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to Nokuthula Simelane
Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 02
Mbombela 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective email
address provided Email application to: recruitmentdedt2@mpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025 @ 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431)
as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed,
initialled and dated. The form is obtainable at any National or Provincial
Department(s), www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must
indicate the Post, Reference Number on the Z83 Form application. The new
Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recent updated curriculum vitae with full
personal details, experience, including three (3) names of contactable referees
and it is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated
by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted).
The question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F
must be answered by applicants who were previously appointed in the public
service. Applications received after closing date will, as a rule not be accepted.
Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of
candidate(s) to be available for interview process on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to
undergo personal suitability checks, which include criminal records,
citizenship, financial credits/assets, qualifications verification and previous
employment background/reference checks will be verified. Candidates will be
subject to security screening and vetting. Applicants must disclose if she/he is
not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any business with
Organ of State and whether is performing any additional remunerative work
outside his/her normal duties. The successful candidate will enter into an
Annual Performance Agreement, and also annually disclose his/her financial
interest. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised post must
direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. Communication and
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. SMS Posts: The requirements for
appointment at Senior Management Service level include the successful
completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, which can be accessed using the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the course prior to
appointment. Following the interview and technical exercise(s), the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Advanced programme
and project management. Change management. Financial management.
Process Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery
Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and
customer focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The
successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of a pre-
employment screening process which includes criminal records and
verification of educational qualification certificates. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be
97
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment.
MANAGEMENT ACHELON
POST 26/143 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/09
Please note that this SMS post is re-advertised and applicants who applied
previously are encouraged to reapply
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognised NQF level 7 qualification in Human Resource
Management/Public Management/Legal Services/Communication or
equivalent qualification with a minimum of 5 years relevant work experience at
Senior Management Services. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulation, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development
Act, Skills Levy Act, Occupational health and Safety Act, Human Resource
Development Strategy, Public Finance Management Act and its regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Collective Bargaining Council
Resolutions. The successful candidate must be able to display the following
competencies at advanced levels: strong analytical capabilities. Report writing,
advanced computer skills and valid driver’s license. The candidate must
display the following competencies at advanced levels: strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, financial management,
change management, knowledge management, service delivery innovation,
problem solving and analysis, people management and empowerment, client
orientation, communication. Competencies The preferable candidate must
display these competencies at advanced competent levels: Strategic
Capability, Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and
Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus and Communication,
Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : Ensure the provisioning of optimum human resources management and
Development services to the department. Ensure the provisioning of effective
and efficient information technology management (ICT) services. Ensure the
provision of effective legal services. Ensure optimum utilization of resources
and provide strategic management services to the department. Ensure the
implementation of Service Delivery Improvement Plan. Monitor
Communication Services. Provide financial and human resource management
(personnel) leadership. Manage all governance related matters of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Xaba Tel No: (013) 766 4164
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
NOTE : NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
98
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned
applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service, please
indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal
processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time.
The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the Correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/144 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/200
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA, in
Finance / Supply Chain / Logistic Management. At least five (5) years relevant
experience at middle / senior managerial level. Nyukela Public Service SMS
Pre-entry Programme Certificate. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of
procurement legislation, procedures and processes including the supply chain
management framework and asset management guidelines. The PPPFA, the
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Project management and excellent problem-
solving skills. Excellent communication (verbal, written and presentation) skills.
Strong leadership and management skills and the ability to develop a strong
work team. Motivated and output and outcome driven. Good interpersonal
relations and ability to work with people at all levels. The ideal candidate should
have the following qualities: Proven innovative and creative ability. Financial
management skills. Change management. Knowledge management. Service
delivery innovations. Problem solving and analysis. People management and
empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Manage the Supply Chain Management (demand, procurement, stores,
contracts, assets and transport). Develop, review, maintain and implement
strategies, policies, processes, standards, guidelines, procedures and
monitoring tools in line with legislation and regulations with an emphasis on
improved service delivery. Provide strategic guidance and advice on policy and
regulatory matters of supply chain management and security. Ensure proper
bid administration. Maintain, enhance and manage a service provider database
with an emphasis to increased BBBEE. Ensure timeous payment of service
providers. Manage all assets, including the recording of acquisitions,
depreciation calculations, disposals, transfers, write-offs and safekeeping.
Ensure effective contract monitoring and management. Ensure the
development of capacity-building programmes / training to Programme and
Responsibility managers, Chief Users and employees. Develop performance
and computer measurement and monitoring systems of risk management to
resolve complex and sensitive SCM processes and delivery of Supply Chain
Management services. Ensure sound financial, human resource and
performance management of the supply chain management directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
99
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/145 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: EMERGENCY MEDICINE
REF NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/202 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Themba Hospital (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Emergency
Medicine (2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from
non-South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Experience in academia and
research publication will be an added advantage. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies and Clinical Governance, training of junior medical staff is
essential.
DUTIES : Clinical: Overall in-charge of Emergency Medicine department. Co-ordinate
and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Emergency Medicine
department. Participation in commuted overtime. Participation in Emergency
Medicine teaching of junior clinical staff. Administrate and coordinate all
Emergency Medicine activities. Management of 24-hour ophthalmology
services. Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance according to
National Core Standards for Emergency Medicine including but not limited to
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate staff
performance according to the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and
liaison with other departments within the hospital. Conflict management.
Participation in management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost
containment within Emergency Medicine department in accordance with the
hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Emergency Medicine
Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS)
for self and other clinical staff. Performance of research within the department.
Develop and enhance training and development of healthcare worker in
Emergency Medicine department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers
and Medical Interns and Medical Students. Establish and expand outreach to
referring hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/146 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/203
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration or Public
Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of 3 - 5 years’
experience of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD).
Experience in health and hospital environment will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Human Resources, Administrative support services, sound
financial management, facility management and supervision. Valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to work extra hours and be on standby when need arises.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good written and communication skills.
Good planning and organizational skills. Knowledge of the PFMA / Labour
Relations and other relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal, problem – solving
and dispute resolution, communication, analytical and writing skills. Ability to
work under pressure with minimum supervision. Ability to conduct seminars or
workshops and presentation of budget. Strong leadership, managerial,
organisational, strategic, operational and contingency planning skills.
Independent decision-making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations 2001, Public Service Act 1994,
100
Employment Equity Act 55 of 1998, Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other
related prescripts of the Department of Health.
DUTIES : Overall management of hospital administration includes facility management
and security. Efficient and effective implement the Departmental strategic
planning of the corporate services. Management of personnel administration,
human resource development and training, disciplinary procedures, labour
relations, recruitment and selection processes and staff performance
assessment. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees
maintenance requirements. Support the Medical Manager and management
team. Effectively and efficiently run the Corporate Services within the hospital
and give full support to other services and programmes within the Hospital.
Ensure high level of administration and improve cleanliness within the hospital
environment. Promotion of equity when it comes to resource distribution to
ensure that the targets are achieved. Effectively manage and develop human
resources, including sound employment relations. Support Employee
Assistance Programme, departmental health information and communication
technology functions in the district / hospital. Exercise and regulation, control
over institutional activities. Monitor implementation of the plans. Represent the
district / hospital in various forums at the district level and report to senior
structures of the department. Provide subordinates with the overall policy
framework and provide strategic leadership. Develop and maintain
constructive working relationships within administration and support and other
Professional structures. Monitor and ensure proper utilisation of financial and
physical resources. Be responsible for the supervision and evaluation of the
staff performance. Manage the office budget. Coordinate proper staffing of
hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/147 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/205 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R848 862 – R900 948 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital and Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Pharmacy Degree or equivalent qualification.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025). Core
competencies recommended. Commitment to quality development of self and
others. Computer literacy, good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Strong leadership and managerial skills.
DUTIES : Ensure proper selection and procurement of drugs and surgical items for the
hospital. Ensure rational use of drugs. Develop a hospital medicine formulary.
Monitor expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock
control functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Supervise and train Pharmacy Support Staff, Interns, Community Servers and
Junior Pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/148 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/213 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Mjejane Clinic (X1 Post)
Boschfontein Clinic (X1 Post)
Agincourt Mobiles (X2 Posts)
Maviljan Clinic (X1 Post)
Islington Clinic (X1 Post)
Gottenburg Clinic (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
101
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/149 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/216 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367–R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Carolina Clinic (X1 Post), Winfred Maboa CHC (X1 Post) and Thuthukani Clinic
(X1 Post) (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
102
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/150 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/224 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Ogies Clinic (X1 Post)
Allemansdrift Clinic (X1 Post)
Nokaneng Clinic (X2 Posts)
Kwaggafontein CHC (X2 Posts)
Vlaklaagte CHC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/151 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE (HAST) REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/225
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Accounting / Financial / Auditing as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum
of three (3) years’ relevant experience of which three (3) years’ experience
must be at supervisory / managerial (level 7/8). Conditional grant experience
will be an added advance. Understanding of government budgeting and
planning processes, Conditional Grant Frameworks, government systems in
terms of BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS Good computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel and MS PowerPoint), communication (written and verbal) and
interpersonal skills Able to work in a team, under pressure and irregular hours.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Support the coordination of the District Health programme grant: District Health
component business plan development. Ensure necessary approvals are
obtained. Compile the grant budget and ensure sub-programme managers
103
submit credible input. Provide variance explanations on monthly In-Year-
Monitoring (IYM) and ensure submission to the National Department of Health.
Coordinate the compilation of the quarterly reports and facilitate the approvals
and submission to the National Department of Health. Review expenditure
report on a monthly basis to identify any misallocations or misclassifications of
transactions and process the correcting journals. Ensure accuracy of monthly
transfers by National Department of Health. Assist the programme manager
and sub-programme managers to unblock any procurement challenges to
ensure spending efficacy. Manage internal and external audits. Risk
Management. Liaise with the National Department of Health on any
intergovernmental relations relating to the grant. Perform any other duties
assigned by the superiors. Management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/152 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATION REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/226
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Forensic Audit / Internal Auditing / Forensic Accounting as recognized by
SAQA. LLB / Law Degree will be an added advantage. At least a minimum of
three (3) years’ experience in Forensic Auditing, Forensic investigation or
related field of which three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory /
managerial (level 7/8). Valid drivers licence. Knowledge of Forensic
Investigation/ Auditing/Accounting, Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) Treasury Regulations and King Code on Corporate
Governance, Knowledge of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities
Act, Knowledge of the Prevention of Organized Crimes Act, Knowledge of the
Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and Anti-Corruption and Fraud
Prevention measures. Skills and experience in the application of Internal Audit
Frameworks and Methodologies. Skills: Planning and organizing,
Communication (written and verbal), Computer Literacy, Leadership,
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Conduct detailed investigation into allegations of fraud, corruption or financial
misconduct. Gather, analyse and interpret financial data and other evidence to
uncover anomalies or irregularities. Prepare accurate and comprehensive
forensic audit reports for senior management and relevant stakeholders.
Collaborate with internal audit and risk management to recommend control
enhancements. Collect, organize, and secure evidence in compliance with
legal and regulatory standards. Assist in maintaining the chain of custody and
preparing evidence for use in disciplinary actions, legal proceedings or
regulatory inquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/228 (X2 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years' relevant
experience of which three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory /
managerial (Level 7/8) within Human Resource Management Environment.
Extensive knowledge of the PERSAL system and at least a minimum of four
(4) PERSAL courses is an inherent requirement. A good understanding and
104
functional knowledge of the relevant public service regulatory framework.
Knowledge of HR policies, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Basic Condition of Employment Act, Employment Equity Act, Labour Relations
Act, Pension Case Management, COIDA, IOD, OHS Act, PFMA and
Establishment. Good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Sound communication
and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making
and organizational skills. Computer literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook &
Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Facilitate
HR Personnel Provisioning matters. Co-ordinate and monitor appointment
process. Render administrative functions including the following: recruitment
and selection of staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions, probationary periods, etc). Manage conditions of
services and benefits: leave, leave gratuities, pensions, termination of services,
procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health, housing allowance, overtime,
translations and writing reports etc.). Administer and monitor transfers and
adjustments of employees. Administer compliance of Internal Controls. Provide
support to the auditing process. Give input in the development of strategic,
business and procurement plans. Consolidate monthly and quarterly reports.
Ensure development of staff training needs. Facilitate financial and human
resources. Employees should be able to interpret and understand regulatory
framework relating to employee benefits including the OSD. Coordinate
performance management system, address human resource administration
enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human resource
management practices, inform, guide, and advise the personnel on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Provide
support to Corporate Manager and the Chief Executive Officer
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/154 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/229
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Embhuleni Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) (2025). Grade 1: SA
Qualified employees: None after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign Qualified employees: One (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in SA. Hospital experience
and extensive knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety will be an added
advantage. Good interpersonal Skills, written, verbal and presentation Skills.
Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Ability and
willingness to travel. Good interpersonal relationship, Leadership skill. Valid
drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Ensure patient care during imaging for optimal diagnostic purpose: Explain
procedures to patients, prepare patient for imaging, Assist and position patient
for imaging, perform imaging. Practice radiation protection to minimize
radiation dose to staff, patients and general public: Establish LMC status of
female patients, adhere to radiation safety standards (secure area, lead aprons
etc), Apply correct radiation/exposure factors (correct dosages), Exercise
clinical responsibility to ensure optimal diagnostic imaging: Interpret clinical
history of patients to determine the correct procedure, ensure correct
positioning of patient to minimize radiation exposure to the patient, ensure
correct identification of patient image (name, lead markers etc.). Participate in
Education and training programs for continuous professional development and
quality service delivery: Practical training and evaluation of students Implement
105
quality assurance programs for quality service delivery, Check/test radiation
equipment and report faults, apply reject analysis, Adhere to policies and
protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/155 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/230
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank TB Specialized Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus BSc Dietetics Degree. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician (2025). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Render preventative Nutrition Services (including growth monitoring,
education, etc) in the surrounding clinics. Diet prescriptions for patients. Help
with food management of the hospital. Participate in quality Improvement
Programmes. Rendering of nutritional counselling services. Prescription and
authorization of special diet products. Implementation of guidelines for the
maintenance of healthy nutritional practices. Compilation and implementation
of information pamphlets on nutrition. Plan and implement a suitable
programme for an individual or group.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/156 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/232 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital and Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and paediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields
of mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
106
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/157 : SPEECH THERAPIST & AUDIOLOGIT GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/234 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Current registration with the HPCSA as
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Grade 1 (2025): SA qualified employees:
none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service
as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Good
verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal relations. Problem
solving skills. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety Act. Ability to perform
basic quality assurance tests. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render effective patient centered speech therapy and audiology service for in
and out- Patients in adherence to the scope of practice and health protocols.
To with colleagues, relieve as and when the need arises, and to work closely
with the interdisciplinary team members. Carry out delegated duties to
participate in student training, supervision and performance evaluation.
Implement and maintain the quality assurance and National Core standard and
norms at departmental level. Adhere to provincial, hospital and departmental
policies, procedures, guidelines and regulations. Perform record keeping, data
collection, assist with budget control and assets managements. Contribute and
participate in professional development of self-colleagues and members of the
interdisciplinary team members. Participate in research projects of the
department. Participate in quality assurance methods and CPD activities.
Communicate effectively with all stakeholders. Exercise acre with all
consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/158 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/235
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
107
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/159 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: HAST REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/236
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office (Emalahleni)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Accounting / Financial / Auditing
as recognized by SAQA. The following will serve as a recommendation:
Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Financial Experience
Exposure. Knowledge of LOGIS, and BAS and be computer literate. Be able
and be prepared to work under pressure. Be a team player. Be creative and be
able to pay attention to details. A driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : To supervise and monitor Expenditure on the grant. Perform payment
preparation of invoices presented for payment and capturing of payments on
the BAS. Assist with supply chain management. To capture/ authorize the
payment and journal transactions on transversal systems, such as BAS,
LOGIS and any other prevailing systems. To ensure the reconciliation and
clearance of suspense accounts, including the Creditors and Debtors
Accounts. Assist the programme manager and sub-programme managers to
unblock any procurement challenges to ensure spending efficacy. Ensure the
consolidation and submission of Interim/Annual Financial Statements inputs to
Head Office. Ensure the attendance of queries, including the audit queries. To
attend to other related duties as delegated by management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/160 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/239 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Matikwana Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in
General Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
108
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/161 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/259 (X20 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X6 Posts)
Phola Nsikazi CHC (X2 Posts)
Matsulu CHC (X1 Post)
Barberton Hospital (X1 Post)
Sibange Clinic (X1 Post)
Lydenburg Hospital (X2 Posts)
Thaba Cheu Mobiles (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post)
Tintswalo Hospital (X4 Posts)
Edinburg Clinic (X1 Post)
Kildare Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/162 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/265 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Ermelo Hospital (X2 Posts)
Piet Retief Hospital (X1 Post)
Standerton Hospital (X2 Posts)
109
Siyathuthuka CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 26/163 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/273 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Witbank Hospital (X1 Post)
Hlalanikahle Clinic (X1 Post)
Louise Clinic (X1 Post)
Middelburg Hospital (X1 Post)
Marapyane CHC (X1 Post)
Siyabuswa CHC (X1 Post)
Loding Clinic (X1 Post)
KwaMhlanga Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an understanding of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
110
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No:
(013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
111
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Please forward the applications for the post quoting the relevant reference
number to: Senior Manager, Human Resources Administration, Office of the
Premier, Kimberley, 8300, hand deliver at T & I Building, 69 Monument Heights,
Office of the Premier, Ground Floor (Security) and or email addresses provided
for each individual post.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Moremi
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
NOTE : The NC Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and aims to achieve gender and disability representativity at this
level. Therefore, we specifically call for suitably qualified women and persons
with disability to apply. Applications must be submitted on the new application
for employment form (Z83) and accompanied by a comprehensive CV
specifying all qualifications and experience with respective dates. The new
form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained from any
Public Service Department. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, ID and driver’s licence before or on the
day of the interview. Failure to comply with these pre-conditions will disqualify
applications from being processed. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). No late applications will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be accordingly communicated by
the Department. All shortlisted candidates will further be subjected to a
personnel suitability check, which includes criminal record checks, verification
of qualifications, financial and asset record checks, previous employment
verification and citizenship verification. For the Senior Manager, a further
requirement for all applicants is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
“Certificate for entry into SMS”, and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre
entryprogramme/. The successful candidate will be required to provide proof of
completion of the NSG Public Service Management Leadership Programme
Certificate for entry into the SMS. Applicants applying for the Senior position
must note that following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
the competency-based assessment). The competency assessment will test
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tool. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into an annual performance agreement and will have to disclose his/her
financial interests annually.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/164 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES REF NO: CD/PGITS/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognised Bachelor’s Degree in
Information Technology / Computer Science / Business Administration /
Information NQF Level 7as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA), coupled with a minimum of 5 years relevant experience, at
a Senior Management (SMS) level, within an Information Technology
environment, with a proven track record in project and contract management.
The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme is required and no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela Certificate). A valid driver’s licence is
essential. Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are
required for the position: Knowledge of the latest advances in public
management theory and practice, Public Service regulatory framework;
112
Knowledge of Government-wide Enterprise Architecture framework (GWEA),
ITIL, COBIT; Knowledge of policy and strategy development and planning, for
implementation within a government environment, Knowledge of Information
Technology Service Management (ITSM); Understanding of Corporate
Governance of ICT; Know-how on digital transformation and Strategic ICT
leadership; Understanding of digital governance, data analytics and
Cybersecurity; Programme and Project Management, Change and knowledge
management, Financial management; Excellent management communication
and interpersonal skills; Strong leadership and organisational skills;
Negotiation, influencing, collaboration and partnership building; Problem
solving and analytical skills Ability to leverage information and technology in
business model design, business process re-engineering, products and
services development; Logical and creative thinker, able to create synergies
across the Province, to enable cost-effective and innovative shared solutions,
geared towards achievement of organisational goals and improve government
performance.
DUTIES : Overall strategic management and oversight of the Chief Directorate; Oversee
the provisioning of Information Technology support services within the Northern
Cape Provincial Government; Drive the development of the Provincial e-
government and ICT policy and strategy. Promote the effective utilisation and
management of information and technology as strategic resources, to enhance
operations and accelerate service delivery. Manage the implementation of
transversal or shared solutions, systems and infrastructure, hardware,
software and services. Ensure the management of ICT infrastructure and
operations, ensuring the maintenance of ICT infrastructure and operations.
Implement transversal and shared e-government, as well as ICT strategies.
Spearhead innovation across enterprise systems. Manage transversal and
shared contracts, business agreements and service level agreements. Manage
and coordinate transversal or shared ICT security, ensuring that information
security governance and compliance is maintained within the Northern Cape
Provincial Government. Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant
legislation and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate Knowledge
Management. Manage and coordinate Transversal GITO and Governance
Services; Provide guidelines on technology standards and norms and ensure
that guidelines on technology standards are approved, implemented and
maintained. Manage, Oversee the coordination and facilitation of all Northern
Cape Provincial Government departments’ information and services to the
community.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Tlaletsi Tel No: (053) 030 0625
APPLICATIONS : Email applications to: PGITS2025@ncpg.gov.za
POST 26/165 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING REF NO:
DIR/SMP/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Bachelor’s Degree in Public
Management / Business Administration/ Public Administration/ Monitoring and
Evaluation/ Social Sciences at NQF Level 7 as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA), coupled with a minimum of 5 years’ of
experience at a middle management/senior managerial level in Strategy
Management and Organisational Development environment. A valid driver’s
licence is essential. The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme is
compulsory and no appointment shall be finalized without the relevant
candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela Certificate).
Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required for the
position: Excellent knowledge and understanding of policies of government
mandates and priorities; Policy developments, Strategic Planning; Project
Management; Financial Management; Communication Skills (verbal and
written); Management and Organisational skills; Computer skills, Creativity and
innovation; Interpersonal skills, Analytical and numerical skills; Facilitation,
implementation skills; Negotiation and consultation skills; Creativity and
innovation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Facilitating and coordinating departmental strategic management, planning
services and monitoring and evaluation services. Leading and overseeing
institutional performance assessments and providing guidance on
113
organisational development, change management and service delivery
improvement initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z. Langeveldt at 066 484 5888
APPLICATIONS : Email applications to: DIRSMP2025@ncpg.gov.za
POST 26/166 : DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: DIR/LR/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must, as a minimum be in possession of a Bachelor’s Degree in
Public Management/ Public Administration/ Labour Relations Management/
Labour Law, at NQF Level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) , coupled with a minimum of 5 years’ of experience at a
middle management /senior managerial level in a Labour Relations
Management environment. The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme is required and no appointment shall be finalized without the
relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela
Certificate). A valid driver’s licence. Competencies: The following key
competencies and skills are required for the position: Applied strategic
Management and Leadership, Stakeholder Management, People Management
and Empowerment Service Delivery Innovation. Planning and Organising,
Communication, including the ability to compile management reports,
presentation and facilitation, negotiation, problem solving, conflict
management, project management, analytical thinking, interpersonal skills and
mediation, computer literacy, policy development and implementation,
networking, change management, financial management, research,
professionalism, client orientation and responsiveness, integrity, loyalty,
trustworthiness, self-confidence, enthusiasm, responsibility, persuasiveness,
commitment, ability to interpret relevant directives/legislative frameworks.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance and oversee the management of Labour Relations
Processes in Provincial Departments; Co-ordinate and facilitate Provincial
Labour Relations Forums and Chamber Meetings (PSCBC,
GPSSBC.ELRC/PHSSSBC, etc); Solicit, analyse and consolidate Provincial
Reports for submission to DPSA/Bargaining Councils; Conduct Research and
Development of transversal labour relations policies, guidelines and
processes; Represent the employer at Bargaining Forums (Nationally and
Provincially); Negotiate on behalf of the employer at Provincial Bargaining
Council Forum; Ensure Provincial adherence to appropriate procedures in
dealing with grievance and disciplinary matters; Monitor and co-ordinate
conflict management and capacity building in Provincial Departments;
Management Collective Bargaining processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Kannemeyer Tel No: (053) 0300 734
APPLICATIONS : Email applications to: DIRLR2025@ncpg.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 26/167 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: BATHO PELE AND SERVICE DELIVERY REF
NO: AO/BPSD/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Public
Management/Public Administration or equivalent qualification coupled with 3 to
5 years’ experience in Office Management, Public Administration.
Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required for the
position: Extensive knowledge of the functioning of Provincial Government,
Data Management Systems, Batho Pele operations, Knowledge of the
Financial Procurement systems and the relevant policies and record keeping.
The ability to interpret and apply policies. The ability to compile reports and
statistics, accurately record minutes and decisions at meetings, problem
solving skills. Proven computer literacy skills with advanced proficiency in MS-
EXCEL, MS-WORD, MS-PowerPoint. The post requires a person with proven
organizing and administration capabilities, dealing with stakeholders, ability to
work under pressure with multiple deadlines and maintaining confidentiality.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Manage and coordinate the implementation of Frontline service Delivery
Monitoring; Render systems support to all stakeholders (e.g., improvement
114
plans, Deliverables, etc);Monitor and verify the accuracy and integrity of
performance-reported information; Manage and coordinate the monitoring of
provincial service delivery intervention programmes; Coordinate and facilitate
the Batho Pele Programme.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T. Wanyane at 066 415 0022
APPLICATIONS : Email applications to: AOBPSD2025@ncpg.gov.za
115
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH-WEST
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
APPLICATIONS : Completed applications should be forwarded to the Director: Human Resource
Management: Department of Human Settlements, hsjobs@nwpg.gov.za,
2735, hand deliver to Cnr Provident and University Drive, West wing 2nd floor
Garona Building, Mmabatho. The North-West Department of Human
Settlements is an Affirmative Action Employer with the intention of promoting
representatively (race, gender and disability) through the filling of these posts.
The posts are open for everyone, but preference will be given to people with
disabilities. NB: The Department reserves the right not to make appointments.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
CLOSING DATE : 15 August 2025, Time (16H00)
NOTE : Directions to Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the prescribed
form, new Z83 (properly completed), obtainable from any Public Service office.
A comprehensive CV with competencies, experience and with full names
addresses and telephone numbers of at least three referees. Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on applications, however shortlisted candidates must submit other relevant
documents to HR on or before the day of the interview and must be certified.
Please note: It is a responsibility of a person in possession of a foreign
qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted) Applications
should be forwarded in time to the Department, since applications received
after the closing date indicated below will, as a rule, not be accepted. It will be
expected of candidates to be available for interviews on a date and time and
at a place as determined by the Department. Please note if you have not heard
from us within three (03) months after the closing, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Failure to comply with the above requirements
will result in the disqualification of the application. The applicants should state
the applicable reference number with the relevant post. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding the advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the relevant person indicated on enquiries. Completion of new Z83:
Applications must be submitted on the improved Z83, approved to be utilized
with effect 01 January 2021, which must be completed in such a manner that
provides sufficient information about your candidature and the post applied for
by completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed and initials on
the second page are not mandatory. Should the applicant/s use incorrect
application form for employment (Z83), or not compliant to the notes, the
application/s will not be considered for selection purposes (disqualified). The
Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae with at least three (3)
names of referees with current contact details. Subjects of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Completion of the Z83 form: Part
A, B,C and D may be left blank, marked as not relevant, and use dashes or
N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for and as long as the CV
has been attached and provides the required information, Part E: all fields must
be completed, however question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment
into the Public Service. The employment application form (Z83) is obtainable
at any National or Provincial Department, and it is accessible on the DPSA
website, www.dpsa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/168 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS PLANNING REF NO: HS/
01/ 25/26
Component: Human Settlements Developments
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration Package consist
of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government Employee Pension Fund,
Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter a performance agreement and sign employee contract.
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Advanced Diploma /B-Tech/Degree (NQF level 7) as
recognised by SAQA in Town Planning. Minimum three (3) to five (5) years’
116
relevant experience required of which three (3) years should be at Assistant
Director Level (Level 09) A valid driver’s license (Code B or C1). Must have an
Extensive Travelling ability. Competencies/ Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
of construction project management, built environment, government
procurement processes, Human Settlements programs, Human Settlements
legislative mandates, frameworks, policies, National Housing Code, Spatial
Planning and Land Use Management Act (SPLUMA) Knowledge of Municipal
Integrated Development Plan, Spatial Development Framework (SDF),
Infrastructure Development Plan, Land Tenure/Acquisition services, HS Grant
Business Plan Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Financial
management and expenditure reporting. knowledge of the Housing Subsidy
System (HSS). Policy Development and interpretation Programme and Project
Management Client Orientation and Customer focus Technical and analytical
skills Report writing, presentation skills, Interpersonal skills, organizing skills,
Conflict management, problem solving, Communication skills, Computer
literacy and Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
DUTIES : Development, preparation and maintaining of the HSDG and the ISUPG
Business Plans Facilitate the One on One Engagement with all municipalities
within the North West Province as part of the planning for Business Plan
development, Coordinate Projects identification process and verification by
municipalities and presentation in a District Planning Forum Coordinate
interventions on human settlements projects Monitor Human Settlement
implementation in accordance to the Human Settlement Business Plan
Manage personnel, financial resources, assets and administrative processes
within the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mkhize Tel No: (018) 388 2899
POST 26/169 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: HS/ 02/ 25/26
Component: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Advanced Diploma / B-Tech /Degree (NQF Level 7) as
recognised by SAQA in Internal Auditing /Financial Accounting / Management
Accounting 3 – 5 years relevant experience in a Financial Accounting/ Internal
control/Internal Audit environment Valid driver’s Licence.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In depth Knowledge and understanding of
relevant prescripts and process governing public services such as PSR and
PSA Knowledge of Supply Chain prescripts and frameworks Treasury
regulations, PFMA, Financial Manuals Internal Control and Risk Management
Methodologies & Strategies Knowledge of management links of Government
Financial Systems (BAS, PERSAL & WALKER) Policy development ,
interpretation and implementation Computer literacy Sound planning and
organising skills High level of reliability and commitment Basic written and
verbal communication skills Excellent time management skills Report writing
and Presentation skills Duties: Development of departmental Post Audit Action
Plan Ensure that there are tight internal control systems within the department
Facilitate process of identification and addressing unauthorised, irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure (UIFW) in the department Record keeping
and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mokhadi Tel No: (018) 388 3524
POST 26/170 : RISK SPECIALIST REF NO: HS/ 03/25/26 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Risk and Intergrity Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 OR equivalent National Diploma / B-Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Internal Control /Auditing Financial or Management Accounting/Risk
Management as recognised by SAQA 2-3 years’ experience in a relevant field
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Knowledge of National Risk Management
Framework Corporate governance guidelines, Risk assessment, investigative
methods and techniques, Audit practices Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and accompanying Treasury Regulations Research
skills Analytical skills Good communication skills (Verbal and Written) Team
player interpersonal relations skills The ability to work independently Self –
117
disciplined and ability to work under pressure Duties: Provide Support in the
implementation of Risk Management strategy, policies, risk
mitigation/treatment plans Provide administrative support services to the Risk
Management programmes and co- ordinate Risk Management activities
Conduct Risk awareness workshops and educational campaigns Render
secretarial duties for the Risk and Integrity Management Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Thulo Tel No: (018) 388 2394
POST 26/171 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PMDS UNIT REF NO: HS/ 04/25/26
(X1 POST)
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 or equivalent. National Diploma/ B-Tech (NQF level 6/7) in
Human Resource Management/ Public Administration as recognised by SAQA
2-3 years’ relevant experience in coordination of PMDS.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Working knowledge and understanding of
the Legislative frameworks governing the Public Service Knowledge of Human
Resource Management prescripts, directives and circulars Knowledge of
PMDS processes, policies and templates Knowledge of Administrative
procedures Computer Literacy Communication skills (Verbal and written)
Sound interpersonal skills Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the submission of performance contracts (PA, WP AND PDP)
Provide administrative support in the submission of mid- year and annual
performance assessment reviews Facilitate and administer the implementation
of performance incentives process Render general administration in the Unit
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Matheolane Tel No: (018) 388 2080
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online, or hand delivered at the Directorate of
Human Resource Management, Second Floor, Ga-rona Building, Mmabatho.
All attachments for online applications including the Z83 and CV must be one
document in PDF, indicating the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your e-mail. Use the correct e-mail address
associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025 at 16H00 (walk-in) and 00.00 mid-night (email)
NOTE : All applications must indicate the correct reference number. The Office of the
Premier is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer,
and it is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
in employment, especially in respect of race, gender and disability. In terms of
the Employment Equity Plan for the Office, preference will be given to Persons
with Disabilities, Youth, and Females for all these positions. Applications must
be submitted on the approved Z83 form (81/971431) obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the DPSA website, www.dpsa.gov.za, which
must be completed in such a manner that provide sufficient information about
your candidature and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields. The
declaration must be signed and initials in the second page are not mandatory.
The Office reserves the right to introduce further objective criteria or post
requirements for shortlisting should such a need arise. Should the applicant/s
use incorrect application form for employment (Z83), or not compliant with the
notes, the application applicant/s will not be considered for selection
purposes(disqualified). The Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum
Vitae clearly indicating positions held, period in the position and key
responsibilities with three contactable referees. Subject of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Part A must be fully completed.
Part B, C and D questions of the Z83 may be left blank, marked as not relevant,
and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for.
Part E, F and G do not need to be completed if the CV has been attached and
provides the required information, However, the question related to conditions
that prevent re-appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking
re-employment into the Public Service. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application. The
communication from the HR Directorate regarding the requirements for
certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
118
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application
not being considered. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to practical
exercise and integrity assessment. Appointment into SMS positions will be
made only upon submission of the SMS pre-entry programme (Nyukela)
certificate. Suitable SMS candidate/s identified by the selection panel will be
required to undergo competency assessment prior to being appointed.
Incomplete Z83 and late applications will not be considered. Communication
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The successful candidates for the
advertised positions will be required to undergo personnel suitability checks,
which includes criminal records, citizenship, financial checks, qualifications,
and previous employment (Reference checks). It is the responsibility of the
applicant to make sure that the South African Qualifications Authority evaluates
foreign qualifications, and the evaluation certificate will be required on or before
the day of the interview following communication from HR. If you do not hear
from the Office, three months from the date of t advertisement consider your
application unsuccessful. The Office reserves the right not to make an
appointment following this advertisement for any reason.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/172 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/41
Job Purpose: To provide efficient and effective administrative support,
corporate human resource, EXCO support and stakeholder management, the
maintenance of sound legal advisory services and rapid response to service
delivery initiatives in the province.
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) years tertiary qualification at NQF level 8 and/or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of eight (8) years’ experience at senior management
level with experience within the field of administrative support environment
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Programme and project management. Financial Management. Change
management. Knowledge management. Service delivery innovation. Problem
solving and analysis. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Honesty and Integrity. Proven experience in
change management and the management for diversity in a dynamic
transformation and reforming environment. Proven innovative and creative
ability. High level of liaison, negotiation and communication skills appropriate
for this broad management role as well as financial management skills.
Knowledge of economic and social development as well as relevant
governance issues. Tolerance for complexity, ambiguity and uncertainty.
DUTIES : To oversee the provision of sound legal advisory services to the Office and
departments. To oversee the management of efficient and effective Corporate
Management Services, Executive Council and stakeholder management
support. To oversee the management, coordination and support of the
implementation of rapid response to Service Delivery initiatives in the province.
To coordinate the management of resources within the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tselangoe Tel No: (018) 388-3040
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/173 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/42
Job Purpose: To manage, facilitate, coordinate and support the implementation
of the special transformation programmes in the province.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of five (5) years of experience at Senior Management
level with experience within the special programmes delivery environment.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service
prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research, presentation
skills, conflict management & resolution, management skills, analytical skills.
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
119
Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the implementation of Youth Advocacy Coordination
Programmes in the Province. Manage and coordinate the mainstreaming of
gender equality and the rights of children in the province. Manage and
coordinate the mainstreaming of older persons and persons with disabilities
and military veterans services in the province. Manage and provide secretariat
support and advice to the Provincial Council on Aids (PCA) and other
coordinating structures. Management of resources including financial and
personnel within the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr, J.T Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 4443
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/174 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE STRATEGY AND PLANNING REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2025/43
Job Purpose: To coordinate and monitor the implementation of Human
Resource Management Policies and Frameworks in the Provincial
Administration.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management/ Public
Management/ Public Administration at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at Senior Management
level with experience within the Human Resource Management environment.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service
prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research, presentation
skills, conflict management & resolution, management skills, analytical skills.
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : Provision of advice and support on Organisational Development Programmes;
Provision of guidance and support on the application of Human Resource
Practices and Administration; Management of recruitment and selection
processes for Head of Departments. The management of performance
development system for Heads of Department. Provision of guidance and
support on the application of Employee Health and Wellness programmes. To
provide advice and support to Departments with the implementation of sound
Labour Relations. Provide advice and support to Departments with in the
implementation of Education, Training and Development initiatives/strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. SB Chuma Tel No: (018) 388 3099
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment3@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/175 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/44
Job Purpose: To oversee the management, coordination and implementation
of forensic services, anti-corruption programme, the management of discipline
security management services in the provincial administration.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year appropriate tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/ or
equivalent qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at Senior
Management level with experience within the security management, anti-
corruption, discipline management and forensic coordination services and
investigations environment. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound
knowledge of Public Service prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation,
research, presentation skills, conflict management & resolution, management
skills, analytical skills. Strategic Capability and leadership; People
Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management;
Service delivery innovation (SDI), Problem Solving and Analysis; Client
Orientation and Customer Focus and Communication.
120
DUTIES : Coordination, and implementation of provincial anti-corruption programmes of
action and promotion of professional ethics. To oversee the management of
the Provision and coordination of comprehensive investigation management
services. Coordinate, monitor and evaluate provincial security management
services. To manage the development of provincial physical security standards,
systems and procedures. To manage personnel and finances in the Chief
Directorate. Provision and coordination of Forensic investigations within the
Provincial Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. SB Chuma Tel No: (018) 388 3099
: E-Mail: ooprecruitment4@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/176 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY AND INTERVENTIONS REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/45
Job Purpose: To manage and facilitate service delivery support programs,
manage District Offices and interventions across the province.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at senior management
level with experience within the service delivery and intervention environment.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service
prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research, presentation
skills, conflict management & resolution, management skills, analytical skills.
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : The management and coordination of district wide service delivery
improvement support programs and interventions. Facilitation and coordination
of public participation programmes. Manage coordination of Moral
Regeneration and Social Cohesion programmes. Provision of secretariat
services for District Development Model (DDM) and Inter-Governmental
Relations (IGR). Coordination and referrals of complaints on the delivery of
services. Management of personnel and resources in the Chief Directorate
ENQUIRIES : Mr, J.T Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 4443
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/177 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/46
Job Purpose: To manage and facilitate the implementation of Provincial
Performance Monitoring and Evaluation programmes.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at senior management
level with experience within performance monitoring and evaluation
environment. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of
Public Service prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research,
presentation skills, conflict management & resolution, management skills,
analytical skills. Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and
Empowerment; Programme and Project Management; Financial Management;
Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation
(SDI), Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus
and Communication.
DUTIES : The management and facilitation of Provincial Performance Monitoring,
Evaluation and Reporting Programmes. The management and coordination of
the implementation of integrated Provincial Monitoring and evaluation system.
The management and coordination of Provincial research development and
innovation. Management of Personnel and resources in the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr, J.T Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 4443
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment6@nwpg.gov.za
121
POST 26/178 : DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT, COOPERATIVE
GOVERNANCE AND PROTOCOL REF NO: NWP/OOP/2023/47
Job Purpose: To manage and coordinate the implementation of stakeholder’s
management Programmes
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three- (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior
management level with experience within stakeholder management,
Cooperative Governance and Protocol environment. Knowledge, Skills, and
Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service prescripts/ legislations,
Corporate Governance and Inter-Governmental Relations, monitoring and
evaluation, research, presentation skills, conflict management & resolution,
management skills, analytical skills. Strategic Capability and leadership;
People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge
Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI), Problem Solving and Analysis;
Client Orientation and Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Coordination of International Relations and Intergovernmental Relations.
Facilitate international dialogue to strengthen relations on foreign investments.
Coordinate the implementation of memorandums of understanding between
the province and sister governments abroad. Coordinate intergovernmental
relations efforts across spheres of government to optimise development
initiatives. Management and coordination of protocol services; Develop and
align protocol systems with national standards, Coordinate protocol services in
North West Provincial Government, Maintain provincial order of proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. I Tselangoe Tel No: (018) 388 4276
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/179 : DIRECTOR: NGAKA MODIRI MOLEMA DISTRICT REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/48
Job Purpose: To manage and coordinate district wide service delivery
improvement support programmes and interventions.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three-year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years of experience at middle/senior
management with experience within service delivery environment. Knowledge,
Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service
prescripts/legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research, presentation skills,
conflict management & resolution, management skills, analytical skills.
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : To provide secretariat services on District Development Model (DDM) and
Intergovernmental Relations (IGR). The management and implementation of
district service delivery intervention programmes. To coordinate stakeholders
in the implementation of public service delivery initiatives. To provide
Management & Leadership in the District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr, J.T Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 4443
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment8@nwpg.gov.za
POST 26/180 : DIRECTOR: DR RUTH SEGOMOTSI MOMPATI DISTRICT REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/49
Job Purpose: To manage and coordinate district wide service delivery
improvement support programmes and Interventions
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Vryburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 and/or equivalent
qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years of experience at middle/senior
management level. with experience within service delivery environment.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Sound knowledge of Public Service
122
prescripts/ legislations, monitoring and evaluation, research, presentation
skills, conflict management & resolution, management skills, analytical skills.
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : To provide secretariat services on District Development Model (DDM) and
Intergovernmental Relations (IGR). The management and implementation of
district service delivery intervention programmes. To coordinate stakeholders
in the implementation of public service delivery initiatives. To Provide
Management & Leadership in the District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.T Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 4443
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment9@nwpg.gov.za
123
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/181 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT: MEDICAL (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 084 754 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Inherent requirement of the job: It
will be expected of the successful Head: Clinical Unit to work commuted
overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so demand. Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
the relevant statutory and policy frameworks, including Healthcare 2030, the
Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms and Standards, EDL, Standard
Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based clinical care. Clinical service
delivery in accordance with the Level 2 package of care for Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, and experience in driving continuous quality improvement,
clinical risk identification and mitigation, and managing medico-legal matters.
Proven experience with supervising staff, training junior doctors, and managing
financial and other resources, with the ability to develop staff of quality and
provide leadership with regards to issues of diversity, transformation and
equity. Track record in training of both under-graduate and post-graduate
healthcare personnel. Computer literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Obstetrics Department in rendering an
efficient and cost-effective specialised Obstetric service to patients managed
by the Mowbray Maternity Hospital, including the delivery of outreach and
support services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for the
Obstetrics Service at Mowbray Maternity Hospital and respond to medical and
legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources (including
laboratory investigations, medication, consumables and equipment) and
manage human, financial and capital resources in the Obstetric Department.
Deliver effective and efficient management of the Obstetrics Department, and
provide strategic leadership, planning and decision-making as a member of the
Hospital Executive Management. Plan and partake in the training of staff
including Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service Medical Officers
and Interns. Participate in the functioning of the Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at the University of Cape Town, including the training of UCT
students in the discipline of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and ensure that
research appropriate to the local health setting is promoted at Mowbray
Maternity Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JC Joemat Tel No: (021) 659-5544
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This is a Joint
Staff Appointment with the University of Cape Town. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical; oral and competency bases assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
124
POST 26/182 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY: CRITICAL
CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 553 670 per annum
Grade 2: R1 773 222 per annum
Grade 3: R1 936 806 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital and The University Of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care or Paediatric Pulmonology.
Registration with a professions Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care or Paediatric Pulmonology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Critical Care. Inherent requirements of the job: Post specialisation experience
in Paediatric Intensive Care including peri-operative care of cardio-thoracic,
neuro-surgical and trauma patients is essential. A valid driver’s licence.
Commuted overtime is compulsory 16 hours per week. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills Ability to work
under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work
in a multi-disciplinary team. Proven Leadership abilities. Experience in
supervision of staff and students. Proven knowledge/skills and experience in
principles of service planning, organizing, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Within the PICU and 16 hours per week commuted
overtime. Provide comprehensive, high-quality paediatric critical care clinical
services. Conduct ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings, Morbidity
and mortality meetings. Manage and effectively/efficiently use allocated
resources. Effective and efficient administration of clinical services. Teaching:
Undergraduate & post graduate students, nursing staff, rotating registrars /
medical officers and senior registrars. Research: Participation in existing and
conducting new research projects within the department and stay abreast of
clinical developments. Administration: Liaising with Hospital management and
the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Salie, email: shamiel.salie@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/183 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualifications that allow
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license.
Willingness to commuted overtime. Willing to work weekends and public
holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate Clinical experience.
Appropriate clinical governance knowledge and skills. Good communication
skills (written and verbal). Ability to function/make decisions independently and
as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of financial and
human resource management, change management and other relevant
125
general management skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of
the Department of Health Western Cape. Good computer skills.
DUTIES : Clinical outcomes of Medical Officer and allied health division in Overstrand
Sub-district. Support to Manager: Medical Services and Management Team.
HR Management of the Medical Officer and Allied Health division of the
Overstrand Sub-district. Financial Management of Medical officers and Allied
health division of the Overstrand Sub-district. Good quality innovation
management of the Medical Officer and Allied Health division of the Overstrand
Sub-district.
ENQUIRIES : Dr F Fourie Tel No: (028) 313-5201
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the inter-view. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates will be required to undergo
a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/184 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALITY) PAEDIATRIC NEUROLOGY
(24 Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 271 901 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration: Registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirements of the job: FCPaed
and MMed (Paed) is a requirement, Must provide after-hours emergency
services and participate in commuted overtime at 16 hours per week within the
Department of Paediatrics and Child Health Platform. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in and/or demonstrated interest in working with
children and their caregivers. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills
(both written and oral). Demonstrated understanding of being mindful of
cultural differences and adapting communication and administration methods
to respect diverse patients. Strong attention to detail and ability to work both
independently and collaboratively within a team. Demonstrated commitment to
ethical conduct, patient safety, and maintaining confidentiality. Experience in
general paediatrics at a post graduate level. Ability and willingness to supervise
medical students and rotating registrars.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Comprehensive Paediatric Neurology and general
paediatric clinical care and service delivery in the Western Cape Paediatric
Neurology service outpatient and inpatients under the direction of specialist
supervisors. After-hours calls as for senior registrars in the Department of
Paediatrics & Child Health (UCT) and responsible to the director of the registrar
programme. Administration and Management of the Unit of Paediatric
Neurology including ensuring correct patient data and statistics. Efficiently
manage clinical notes, including generating letters, providing feedback to
referring doctors, contributing to databases, and using designated ICD-10
codes. Teaching: Contribute and facilitate learning of undergraduate students
and Paediatric registrars attached to the clinic and ward. Learning: Rotation
through areas of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital. To acquire
training in Paediatric Neurology including completing the required training
logbook and to successfully pass the College of Medicine of South Africa
Fellowship in Paediatric Neurology examination to enable certification as a
paediatric Neurologist with the HPCSA. Attendance and presentation at
Academic Departmental meetings and journal clubs. Research: Involvement
with existing research projects, clinical reviews, audits and clinical trials. The
post holder is expected to conduct a research project towards producing a
Master’s (MPhil) thesis through UCT.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Jo Wilmshurst Tel No: (021) 658 5370 / 5434 or jo.wilmshurst@uct.ac.za
126
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University/ University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Red Cross War Memorial
Childrens Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plain District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. Senior
Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar
will be on contract. Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. As
directed by the Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants
must note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and
that their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and
previous employment. It will be expected of shortlisted candidates to be:
available at the venue on the time and date as determined by the Department
and bring along recently (not older than 6 months) certified copies of your
Identity Document (ID), driver’s license (if applicable for the post), qualification
and/or proof of registration at relevant statutory body. Failure to adhere to the
aforementioned may lead to his/her application being disqualified and not
further considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/185 : REGISTRAR (RADIATION ONCOLOGY) (X3 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Valid (Code B/EB) driver licence. Emergency and after hour call
cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training complex but could
be required to work across the platform on request. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Current certificate of ATLS/ACLS. Research
methodologies. Professionalism, good communication and interpersonal skills,
being a team player and leadership. Oncology or Palliative care experience.
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB.
DUTIES : Attending to Oncology patients in clinic and ward settings. Mentor, support, and
assist junior colleagues. Participation in performance appraisals/assessments.
Involvement in research/audits relating to Radiation Oncology. Participation in
127
the academic activities and teaching responsibilities of the division. Provision
of appropriate Oncology care to cancer patients according to accepted
protocols under the guidance of the Consultant Radiation Oncologist.
Administrative tasks required for optimal patient care and well-organised and
efficient clinics and wards. Improving and updating knowledge through
participation in teaching and training sessions and self-learning. Radiotherapy
planning and treatment skills development.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Z Mohamed Tel No: (021) 404 4263
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Preference will
be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document*.
No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status). Candidates will have to undergo
profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration will be given to
existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their
existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 4/5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason
the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate
whether they have bursary obligations. Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem
framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be
called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro
West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial
Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital,
Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/186 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Officer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-
year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
128
Community Service as required in South Africa Inherent requirements of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Ensure an
efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a patient centered
focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester healthcare
ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high quality clinical
records. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr W Johnson Wayne.Johnson@westerncape.gov.za Tel No: (021) 860 2584
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/187 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (RADIOLOGY) (X4 POSTS)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the indibvidual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Primary
Examination – Part 1 FC Rad (Diag.) SA. Supervised clinical experience in any
aspect of diagnostic imaging. Effective leadership & interpersonal skills.
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB. Knowledge and practical skills. Appropriate general medical and
radiology experience. Computer skills including typing, managing
spreadsheets and using databases. Verbal and written communication skills.
Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Emergency and after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a
specific training hospital but will be required to work across the distributed
training platform. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness and ability to
travel.
DUTIES : Provision of safe, comprehensive 24-hour tertiary level diagnostic service to
patients at Tygerberg Hospital and associated training hospitals. Produce
timeous and accurate radiological reports and assist in optimal workflow
through imaging domains. Perform onsite after-hours duties as per call roster.
Attend teaching program activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the
registrar training program. Assist with the training medical students, nursing
staff and radiographers. Learn critical skills required of Radiologist.
Involvement in research/audits relating to Radiodiagnosis.
ENQUIRIES : Prof C Ackermann Tel No: (021) 938-9320
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It
may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution
during their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior
to any decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also
discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
129
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/188 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY) PAEDIATRIC
INFECTIOUS DISEASES (5/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R971 043 per annum
Grade 2: R1 108 263 per annum
Grade 3: R1 210 503 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, University Of Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Sub-specialist in Paediatric Infectious Diseases. Registration:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub-specialist in Paediatric Infectious
Diseases. Experience Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Subspecialist in Paediatric Infectious Diseases. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Subspecialist after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Subspecialist in Paediatric Infectious Diseases (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Sub-specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Subspecialist in Paediatric Infectious Diseases (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees). Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to travel within the District and Metro
Region. Valid Driver’s Licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
comprehensively manage all child and adolescent paediatric infectious
diseases cases including intensive management of tertiary level patients.
Proven leadership abilities. Experience in supervision of staff. Experience in
effective manage of allocated resources. Proven experience in teamwork.
Proven knowledge/skills and experience in principles of service planning,
organizing, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Proven ability to
adhere to all departmental requirements and protocols. Proven knowledge of
public health and public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to
manage resources effectively. Research experience as a primary investigator
or research supervisor. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, high-quality child and adolescent paediatric infectious
diseases and general paediatrics clinical services. Clinical leadership and
relevant oversight of daily clinical operations of a multidisciplinary paediatric
infectious diseases team and a general paediatrics team in a tertiary setting.
Provide outreach and support to referrers and referring institutions, as required.
Conduct ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings. Manage and
effectively/efficiently use allocated resources. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Adhere to requirements for all people
management matters. Create a learning environment for students and junior
colleagues both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate clinical
130
audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
developments.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Nuttal Tel No: (021) 685 5111, Email: James.Nuttal@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/189 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDICAL SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registrable with the South
African Statutory Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council.
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Experience as a Mental
Health Care Practitioner as defined in the Mental Health Care Act 17 of 2002”
means a psychiatrist or registered medical practitioner or a nurse, occupational
therapist, psychologist or social worker who has been trained to provide
prescribed mental health care, treatment and rehabilitation services. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to overtime,
weekends and public holidays to meet operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Quality Assurance
framework and the related internal and external policies Statistical analytical
skills. Appropriate knowledge and skills related to rehabilitation. Ability to
identify, successfully initiate and develop new health projects. Change-
management skills. Computer skills. Sound knowledge of the Mental Health
Care Act, 2002 (Act 17 of 2002), and the mental-health care package, policies
and the ethos of community-based mental-health care. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the health-care management systems including patient
management systems, referral systems and Emergency Psychiatric Services.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient operational management and planning of the Clinical
Support Services in the psychiatric hospital in terms of the relevant acts and
regulations. Supervising Clinical Support Services. Manage the Quality
Assurance and Risk Management program for the hospital by taking overall
responsibility for the implementation of the National Core Standards for
psychiatric health facilities. Act as the delegated official to manage the
documentary compliance with the Mental Health Care Act, 2002 (Act 17 of
2002). Responsible for liaison with the Mental Health Review Board and for
ensuring the resolution of all identified problems. Support the CEO to ensure
effective and efficient functioning of the hospitals business units and support
the development of matrix-management teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Saville Tel No: (021) 503-5004.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/190 : FACILITY MANAGER (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the
individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three year Diploma/Degree in
a Health related or Managerial field. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
managerial position in a NGO, private organisation or the state sector. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven leadership abilities. Good interpersonal and people
management skills. Knowledge of Public Sector legislation and Health Sector
experience. Computer literacy (MS Office).
131
DUTIES : General and operational management of a Community Health Centre, related
services in the drainage area and implementation of the prescribed package of
services. Strategic, operational planning, implementation of operational plans
and quality assurance programmes and Monitoring and evaluation thereof.
Sound financial, Supply Chain Management, facilities management and
People Management. Plan and co-ordinate the provision of support service
systems that will enhance the quality of care. Ensure a high level of client
satisfaction through the effective planning and implementation of local centre
operations and good communications with internal and external customers.
Information and data management. Stakeholder Engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Patientia Tel No: (021) 815-8866
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/191 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (ANTENATAL WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post basic qualification with a duration of at least one year,
accredited with SANC in Advance Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work after
hours, weekends and public holidays, on day and night duty as required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation
and policy related to nursing within the Public sector. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards.
Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision making and
conflict resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function
under pressure. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The appointed candidate will be responsible for the coordination and rendering
of optimal, holistic and quality Perinatal and Neonatal Health care within
standards and a professional / legal framework. Manage the utilization and
supervision of all resources effectively. Coordinate the provision of training and
research effectively. Provision of effective support to nursing services and
hospital management. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. M Holland Tel No: (021) 659-5550
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/192 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALITY: IPC, QA AND OHS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital, Garden Route District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
132
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in
Occupational Health Nursing Science. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade
1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1 year post basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Project- and Financial management. Ability
to analyse and interpret Health systems information, compile reports and
present the data to direct planning. Good organisational, interpersonal,
creative problem-solving and research skills. Computer literacy (MS Office).
Ability to communicate effectively both (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishments (HE) staff meet the Ideal Clinic Realization
and Maintenance (ICRM) and Ideal Hospital Realization and Maintenance
(IHRM). Ensure the maintenance of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC)
standards. Establish measures that will ensure health and safety of staff and
users. Support the addressing of healthcare risks. Help build the competency
of staff by identifying, planning and addressing Quality Improvement (QI),
Infection Prevention & Control (IPC) and Occupational Health and Safety
(OHS) training needs and maintaining and updating the Health Establishment
training database. Monitor data quality in the Health Establishment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CG Wagener Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Occupational Health Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from the
date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/193 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: MENTAL
HEALTH)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Clinic, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. Post-basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Psychiatry.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse
in General Nursing and at least 10 years of the period referred to above must
be appropriate/recognisable experience in Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification in the specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence. Willingness to rotate and consult patients at
different facilities within the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
133
Good Interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
Word). Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to
Mental Illness within the public sector. Ability to consult with clients who require
mental health counselling.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the clinical management and nursing care to patients
with Mental Health problems within the Sub-district. Provide support and
capacity development to PHC personnel for Sub-district level services and
students and peers. Promote community development and participation in
Mental Health care delivery. Liaise with other role players. Conduct research
related to Mental Health and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Human Tel No: (021) 028 214-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the general
stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a
predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. -This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in:
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Overberg District for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/194 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 637 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Merweville CC, Beaufort West Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in
Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Must be able to operate mobile
clinic vehicle. Willingness to assist at PHC Clinics in Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART training or experience. Problem-
solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in (i.e.,
MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the Management of the Burden of Disease according to the
Comprehensive Health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and community. Link with
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
Infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
134
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applications will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Central
Karoo District, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/195 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PHC)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
(plus, a non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of the basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Op die Berg Clinic, Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years of
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse in General nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be an appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub
District inclusive a Mobile and when needed within the community (COPC
concept). A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): NIMART training or experience. Demonstrate in-depth
knowledge of Nursing and public service legislation. Computer literacy (MS
Word and Excel). Ability to promote quality patient care through the
implementation of protocols, guidelines and standards.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Wawini Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Witzenberg Sub-district for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
135
POST 26/196 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
MIDWIFERY AND NEONATOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 637 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Willingness to rotate within the Obstetrics and Gynaecology and
Neonatology Paediatric department. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Neonatology Paediatric
Department.
DUTIES : To provide holistic, quality health care and education according to individual
needs of patients, family and the community. Effective utilization of Human and
Physical Resources. Support Nurse Manager with Staff Supervisory Function.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development of self
and others. Display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the
execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Potts Tel No: (044) 802-4553
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will
be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period
of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/197 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
(MALE ADMISSION WARDS) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with
the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.: Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
136
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and
night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective
communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation
and policies of the Department of Health and Wellness Skills to plan, organize
and coordinate the service by analyzing, problem solving and decision-making.
Leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives of the
Mental health unit. Computer literacy in MS packages (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources(equipment and consumables). Participation in
appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students, other
categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation, statistical
data collection capturing and participation in research activities. Assist with the
development and the implementation of nursing quality improvement plans,
policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MM Banzi Tel No: (021) 370-1248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing
Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/198 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (WARD D NEURO)
(X1 POST) (RELIEF TEAM) (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Minimum educational qualification: Basic
R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma or Degree in Nursing) or equivalent that allows
for registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years recognisable experience in Nursing after registration with
SANC as a professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3 A minimum of 20
years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with SANC as a
professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts,day and night duty, weekends and public holidays
when required by operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and understanding of Nursing processes, procedures and other
relevant legal and ethical practises. Computer Literacy in MS Office and MS
outlook. Good Communication skills. Good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic, Nursing Care within set standards and within a
professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse. Effective utilization of
Human and Financial Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the
area. Participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service and the institution.
137
To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Brenton Tel No: (021) 370-2314.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/199 : CSSD MANAGER
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Sterilization and
Decontamination Services as a junior manager/supervisor. Inherent
requirement of the job: Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of
sterilisation and gas sterilisation practices and Decontamination processes.
Strong leadership, strategic, interpersonal, negotiation, facilitation, counselling,
operational contingency planning, managerial and organisational skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Independent effective
decision making and problem-solving skills within the limits of the Public Sector
policy framework. Understanding of and competency in Public Sector financial
management system including budgeting and expenditure control.
Understanding of and competency of Human Resource Management and
Development particularly as it applies to the public levels and skills mix, skills
development and training, discipline, and labour relations.
DUTIES : Manage, organize and control Central of Central Sterile Services Department
(CSSD) and Gas Sterilization Units (GSU). Human resource management of
the CSSD and GSU. Financial resource management of CSSD and GSU.
Infrastructure management of CSSD and GSU. Conduct research and
operational investigation.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R. Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/200 : PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR (TRAINING): CORPORATE AND
WELLNESS TRAINING
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, based at Plumstead
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Appropriate 3-year Health related Diploma / Degree or
equivalent, registrable with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions or Health Professions Council of South Africa. Experience:
Appropriate/ recognisable experience in adult training and facilitation.
Appropriate/ recognisable experience in training coordination. Appropriate
experience in adult training and facilitation and curriculim design. Appropriate
experience in training material and assessment development. Appropriate
experience in coordination and project management. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid code (B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work
overtime. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work
independently, under pressure, unsupervised and in a team context.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable Western Cape
Health policies regulations and guidelines Service. Ability to use all relevant
138
computer applications effectively, independently and with ease. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of the public health sector and adult education
practices. Knowledge and understanding of project management and
implementation. Ensure that corporate and wellness training design,
framework and educational pathway of health care workers are delivered as
determined by service training needs and service design.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and operational implementation of the Corporate
andy Wellness training component. Coordinate training in the Corporate and
Wellness educational programmes developed for health care workers.
Coordination the facilitation of in-service training, updating of skills and
competencies. Coordinate the assessment of the competencies and skills of
health care workers. Conduct content management and training outlines in
respect of training programmes for health care workers. Assist with designing
and conducting additional training as required. Effective management and
utilisation of human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Calvert Tel No: (021) 763-5320
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/201 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma /
Degree or equivalent qualification. Experience: Appropriate experience as a
Labour Relations Officer. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent leadership and
interpersonal skills. Good knowledge and understanding of Labour Law and
applicable common law principles. Knowledge and understanding of the Skills
Development acts and prescripts. Excellent Computer literacy in MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Ability to work under pressure and
independently. Excellent report-writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide the lines of management with expert advice on all Employee Relations
issues and promote Employee Relations. Facilitate Employee Relations and
Employee Wellness training and workshops as necessary within the
Ecosystem. Support the grievance delegated authority to ensure compliance
with policy. Case management with regard to matters of misconduct within the
Hospital. Ensure and contribute to related workplace forums within the
Ecosystem. Provide guidance, coordination and collaboration within the
Ecosystem on matters of Employee Relations, Employee Wellness and People
Development. Support the Hospital Management in ensuring an efficient and
Organizational Rights driven IMLC to achieve labour peace. Ensure
implementation of the strategies, manage and report on the operations and
resources of the Labour Relations, Employee Wellness and People
Development component. Support, coordinate and report on the
implementation of organisational culture and change management strategies
of the Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZZZ Kwinana Tel No: (023) 348-1277
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency assessment.
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within
Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/202 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MAMAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of Human Resource
Management. Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate PERSAL
139
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of Human
Resource policies, procedures, prescripts, HR audit compliance prescripts,
management of the Approved Post Lists (APL), establishment control, Human
Resource Development and Labour Relations. Strong managerial and
supervisory skills. Computer skills (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good
communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Facilitate, co-ordinate and manage HR Planning, Recruitment and Selection,
Establishment Control, Staff Performance Management System and Human
Resource Administration. Implement systems and strategies to ensure
effective and efficient Quality and Risk Management in the Human Resource
Department. Facilitate compliance with the Auditor-General’s requirements
and HR audit reports and ensure that sample testing is performed and reported
on that is in line with the HR Compliance Monitoring Instrument (HR CMI) HR
Audit Action Plan (HR AAP). Administer and ensure that audit investigations,
follow-up and feedback of audit findings are done timeously. Manage Human
Resource Development and the implementation of HRD policies, prescripts
and Institutional Work Skills Plans, and oversee the training of staff. Manage
sound Labour Relations and effective participation in IMLC and labour relations
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Engelbrecht Tel No: (021) 503-5017
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/203 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain and Financial
Management. Appropriate experience in Patient Administration, Revenue and
Hospital Fees Environment. Experience in Information Management,
supervisory and People Management. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive
knowledge of relevant financial prescripts, departmental policies, delegations,
and procedures. Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer
systems (LOGIS, BAS, IPS and MS Office). Extensive knowledge of revenue,
information systems (HIS/CLINICOM, UPFS and SINJANI ICD 10 coding.
Strong people management skills, ability to work in a team context and
motivate team members. An aptitude for working with financial figures.
Excellent leadership, analytical, problem-solving interpretation and analysing
skills. In depth knowledge and experience pertaining to APL, BMI, Supply
Chain Management prescripts, Financial and Revenue Management
prescripts.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management for all Supply Chain Management
functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement
policies and processes, Demand -, Acquisition -, Contract-, Logistics -, and
Disposal Management. Manage, control, and monitor hospital budget and
expenditure as well as income generation and projections. Plan, implement
and maintain financial control and handle audit queries. Responsible for overall
management of Revenue/Fees and Case Management, Cash Management,
BAS and AR reconciliation, Accounts Receivable and billing. Control and
manage Patient Administration Services which includes Admissions. Overall
responsible for Information Management by monitor, control, analyse, interpret,
and report monthly statistics of all departments. Manage all People
Management related functions within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LC Fillis Tel No: (021) 571 8040, Email:
Laurencia.Fillis@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
140
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates would be expected to complete a competency test as
part of the evaluation process.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/204 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND
PERSAL HELPDESK)
Directorate: People Strategy
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, Sub-directorate: Organisational Dynamics and
Remuneration
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3 Year National Diploma or
Degree or equivalent. Experience: Appropriate working experience in a
PERSAL Helpdesk environment and related responsibilities. Appropriate
experience and knowledge of the PERSAL system. Appropriate working
experience on the application of Microsoft Word and Excel. Appropriate
applicable supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code
8 (B, EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and
written communication skills to ensure effective presentation of policies as well
as report writing. Sound practical computer skills in MS Office (Word, Excel,
Power Point), Outlook and Teams. Excellent verbal and written communication,
people and interpersonal relationship skills. Analytical thinking abilities. Good
organisational planning and time management skills. Computer literacy in
Microsoft Office applications (Word and Excel). Leading and Supervising.
Delivering Results and Meeting Customer Expectations. Deciding and Initiating
Action. Working with People. Following Instructions and Procedures. Relating
and Networking. Persuading and Influencing. Applying Expertise and
Technology. Preparedness to work overtime, travel and overnight away when
required.
DUTIES : Operationalise and coordinate the application of PERSAL functionality and
processes and ensure credibility of information processed on the system.
Operationalise and facilitate all PERSAL System training needs within the
Department. Operationalise and manage the appropriate application of
Central/Departmental codes, Access Security, Suspense file transactions and
the Message broadcasting facility. Operationalise and implement System
Change Control (SCC). People management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Klaasen, email: Melissa.Klaasen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test. No payment of any kind is required when
applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/205 : CASE MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Brackengate TCF
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Case Management/Medical Aid
environment. Appropriate experience in ICD-10 Code assignment and the
ability to link patient diagnosis with procedural codes. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
The ability to work with Excel spread sheets, Microsoft Word and web-based
programs (medical aids). Good knowledge of the Uniform Patient Fees
Schedule (UPFS), Managed Health Care or Hospital Information Systems and
EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Knowledge of the Medical Schemes Act 131
of 1998 and the application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) legislation
i.e. the Chronic Disease List (CDL) and Diagnostic Treatment Pairs (DTP).
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and implementation of Case Management
policies, protocol and procedures in the hospital. Perform operational Case
Management functions inclusive of pre-authorisation and clinical review to
ensure compliance with Case Management policies and procedures. Conduct
clinical audits of patient accounts to ensure accuracy of invoices for submission
141
to medical aids and state departments. Provide support to the hospital Fees
Department in terms of follow-up of outstanding medical scheme and state
department balances and account queries. Assist with EDI rejections to ensure
timeous submission of medical scheme invoices. Provide quotations to H1, H2,
H3 and Foreign patients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kannemeyer Tel No: (021) 370-2318
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post will
not be linked to any of the Occupational Specific Dispensations. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/206 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management,
Patient Administration Reception and Medical Records Management.
Appropriate supervision experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge and experience of information systems such as HIS,
CLINICOM, SINJANI, JAC, including the Uniform Patient Fee Schedule
(UPFS), Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18. Computer literacy. Good
interpersonal relations and communication skills. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Overall management and supervision of the Information Management, Patient
Administration Reception and Medical Records Components. Monitor, control,
analyse, interpret and report monthly statistics of the hospital. Maintain patient
information systems and data quality. Ensure training and competency for all
relevant hospital staff on Information and Patient Administration systems.
Maintain an effective Medical Records and Registry. Ensure compliance to
audit requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 659-5567
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/207 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration, PERSAL
and/or Labour Relations experience. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Appropriate experience in the PERSAL system. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the
Public Service Act and resolution, various OSD’s, Human Resource Policies,
Resolutions and Agreements. Ability to ensure compliance in the application of
human resource policies and practices. Knowledge and implementation of
Labor Relations standards and prescripts. Understanding of relevant
legislation pertaining to Labor Relations. Ability to analyze data to compile
management reports, detailing relevant trend analysis. Proficient in MS Office
(Word. Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Adhere and correct application to all transversal personnel practices, policies
and procedures, including all employment practices, Conditions of Service and
Terminations, Appointments, Pensions, PILIR, Structuring of packages, SPMS,
Establishment Administration, RWOEE, Commuted Overtime and Recruitment
142
and Selection etc. Ensure Human Resource compliance and rectification of
Auditor-General reports, Internal Auditors reports, as well as Human Resource
Management compliance reports. Render a support and advisory service with
regards to Personnel Administration and Human Resource Management as
well as monitoring compliance to Human Resources policies. Render sound
labour relations practices at institutional level Administer grievance and
disciplinary cases and maintain a database to generate monthly reports for
labour relations and all training interventions. Render a service to the
Institutional Management and Labor Committee (IMLC). Consult and advise
management and Line management on all labour relations policies,
procedures and interventions. Manage and supervise the general staff office
including the development of Human Resource Officials on all aspects (SPMS,
Discipline, training of staff). Ensure compliance with human resource practices,
policies, resolutions and collective agreements. Responsible for HR related
statistics and the effective usage of PERSAL system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MR Abrahams Tel No: (021) 503-5018
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/208 : PHYSIOTHERPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Standby duties and overtime after hours
and over weekends. Render a service as determined by the referral needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to problem solve, organise, and
prioritize patient treatments/discharge plans. Ability to work within the MDT.
Ability to work independently. Good problem solving, interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assess and treat patients in Trauma, Neurology, Orthopaedic, OPD, Medical,
Surgical, Paediatrics wards as well as High Care /Intensive Care units
associated with these wards. Provision of basic seating and/or mobility
assistive devices. Be responsible for administration related to patient care as
well as departmental administration requirements. Support of supervisory
structures / persons including resource management and adherence to HR
pre-scripts. Assist in the clinical development and guidance of students.
Render a service as determined by the referral needs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Bezuidenhout Tel No: (023) 348-1275
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
143
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/209 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam-and Cape Agulhas Sub-districts (Stationed at Swellendam
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in the Human Resource
Administration, incl. PERSAL, and appropriate supervisory and support
services experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s license and willingness to travel within the sub-districts. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of Human Resource Management and
Contract Management policies. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Teams, MS Office, PERMIS). Sound practical knowledge and experience of
the PERSAL system, knowledge of the Public Service Act and regulations,
various OSD’s, Human Resource Policies, Resolutions and Agreements.
Ability to ensure compliance and identify irregularities in the application of
human resource policies and practices by means of analytical and innovative
thinking.
DUTIES : Responsible for the administration and effective implementation of policies and
prescripts, including the approval of PERSAL transactions related to personnel
provisioning, salary and personnel administration, OSD, and grade
progression, as well as maintaining efficient recruitment and selection services.
Render a support and advisory service ensuring adherence to all transversal
personnel practices, including conditions of service, terminations, SPMS,
establishment administration, and employment policies and procedures.
Administer and monitor compliance to HR policies, ensuring compliance and
rectification of Auditor-General reports as well as HRM Advisory Services
Compliance Reports. Co-ordinate Labour relations and People Development
(HRD) functions. -Responsible for the administration and effective
management of service provider contracts (e.g., Security and Cleaning
Services), maintenance departments, fleet and transport services, as well as
food service units, laundries, and housekeeping departments across the two
sub-districts. Manage the performance and supervision of HR and Support
Services component staff, implement the disciplinary code when required and
provide support to managers, supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Wege Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/210 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Service
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration. Appropriate
PERSAL experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound practical
knowledge and experience of the PERSAL system. Knowledge of the Public
144
Service Act and regulations, various OSD’s, Human Resource Policies,
Resolutions and Agreements. Ability to ensure compliance and identify
irregularities in the application of human resource policies and practices by
means of analytical and innovative thinking. Good verbal, as well as written
communication skills to ensure effective report-writing. Computer skills (i.e. MS
Office, Word, Excel and PowerPoint) and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Ensure adherence and correct application to all transversal personnel
practices, policies and procedures, including all employment practices,
conditions of service and terminations, SPMS, Establishment Administration
and Recruitment and Selection. Render a support and advisory service with
regard to personnel administration and Human Resource Management.
Ensure capturing and approval of Persal transactions executed according to
HR policies and timeframes. Execute audits to ensure compliance to HR
policies. Manage and supervise subordinates including the development of HR
Officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RM Hill Tel No: (023) 348-1274
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/211 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services (on the premises of Tygerberg Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate with
experience/competencies that focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of and exposure to the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) National Treasury Regulations and SCM
instructions. Knowledge of LOGIS and/or SYSPRO, ESL and EPS system.
Computer literacy (MS Office): Word, Excel, Outlook. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid Driver’s Licence. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Ensure adequate demand planning. Responsible for relevant monthly and
quarterly reporting. Maintaining procurement plan and issuance registers.
Acquisition management of goods and service through EPS, transversal
contracts and other means as prescribed in the AOS and SCM delegations.
Responsible for system approvals as per delegations. Manage the effective
implementation of processes to prevent late payments. Effective and efficient
record keeping pertaining to SCM activities and processes. Regular and
credible feedback to management. Responsible for the management of staff in
the relevant SCM component. Assist in other components within Supply Chain
Management as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Overmeyer Tel No: (021) 830-1160
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/212 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMISSIONS (FEES) (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION: INPTIENT AND OUTPATIENT)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Appropriate experience in a Fees-
related environment, including hospital information systems.st. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Fees-related environment, including hospital
information systems. Inherent requirements of the job: Competencies
145
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and written). Ability to
solve problems prioritise and analyse, this includes implementing processes
and follow through Ability to work under pressure and liaise with professional
staff effectively with a strong sense of confidentiality. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS, Clinicom, AR
Billing, JAC and Finance instructions, disciplinary code of conduct, Permis,
Hectis and radiology systems.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a 24-hour emergency and trauma unit and a large
component of patient admin clerks. Management of clinicom, billing (AR), JAC,
ICD10 coding, Hectis and other fees related systems in line with revenue
generation projects. Manage HR, Labour issues including disciplinary
processes wrt staff and submit monthly reports and statistics. Manage and
ensure the cash collection and handover processes are followed effectively.
Ensure accurate classification of patients and management of all
administration duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swartz Tel No: (021) 404 2333
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/213 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Otto Du Plessis Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social
Work or equivalent qualification. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years’ experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with
the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years’ experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of
the nature of human behaviour and the social service profession. Competent
in Child and Youth Care services within the Child Care Act. Full knowledge of
the Termination of Pregnancy Act 92 of 1992. Skilled in trauma
debriefing/supportive counselling.
DUTIES : Establish social work services and network for the Institution and maintain
communication with stakeholders. Ensure that social work service with regard
to the care, support and protection of individuals, groups, families through
relevant programmes is rendered. Keep up to date with new developments in
the social work field. Undertake social work research and development and
contribute to the development of policies. Render a holistic social work services
to individual groups and community using all methods of social work practices.
Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of recommended interventions, reports
on progress and identify. Further amended interventions to address identified
conditions. Liaise/ attend meetings with other departments and non-
governmental institutions to take cognizance of the latest developments in the
relevant fields. Produce and maintain qualitative and quantitative records of
social work interventions processes and Outcomes. Implement social welfare
programme in accordance with the need of the community and Government
priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Bothma Tel No: (028) 514-5400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
146
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status”.
The pool of applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the
Overberg District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/214 : EMERGENCY CALL CENTRE AGENT (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Communication Centre, Metropole
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Emergency/ Medical Call-Centre experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy (MS office). Ability to work shifts as
per roster. Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the GEMC/CAD (computer aided dispatching
system).
DUTIES : Receiving and capture incoming emergency calls on GEMS data system.
Manage caller anxiety and stress. Interrogate the call and assess the nature
and priority of the case. Dispatch the relevant emergency resources via radio
as required. Monitor and control the progress of all emergency incidents.
Maintain order and hygiene in control room.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Masitho Tel No: (021) 932-1966
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/215 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience of
Asset Management and Warehousing within the public or private environment.
Working experience in Procurement (Electronic Procurement System).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience in electronic
procurement systems, Logis and General Supply Chain Management
concepts. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Be able to work
accurately and under pressure.
DUTIES : Processing of Log 1’s / PA’s received from end users / stock. Procurement of
stock (buy-out items) as well as store items and ensure all transactions comply
with the legislative requirements. Maintain a contract file for all transversal
contracts. Provide general administrative support to line managers including
warehousing, asset management and payment functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. DM Pick Tel No: (021) 808-6112
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant post within Stellenbosch Hospital for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/216 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Louwville Clinic, Saldanha Bay Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience with patient and information electronic
systems PHCIS, ETR.net, Tier.net, Ideal Clinic, Sinjani etc. Appropriate
administrative experience in a Health Facility. Inherent requirement of the job:
147
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to relief in other clinics.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Word, Excel and Power
Point) and data capturing skills. Excellent filling and recordkeeping skills. Ability
to work under pressure and to meet deadlines. The ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Act as first contact point for facility and managing the reception point, manage
telephonic and client communication and responsible to make appointments.
Keep records, file and retrieve folders, trace old folders, compile new folders
and destruct folders. File patient folders, documents daily and handle all
general administration duties. Maintain and schedule patient appointments on
PHCIS. Do daily statistics and compile monthly statistics and give support to
supervisor and staff members. Assist with ordering on LOGIS system,
monitoring, and stock control and act responsible with regards to service
ethics, norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JA Julies Tel No: (022) 709 7225
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/217 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources that include Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, Pension
Administration, PERSAL or Related salary administration system and
Recruitment and Selection. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work overtime when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written communication
skills. Sound Knowledge of HRM Policies and Practices, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Collective Agreements regarding personnel- and
salary administration. Computer literate (i.e. MS office package, e-mail and
internet). Ability to meet deadlines and to maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration and
salary administration functions e.g. appointments, service terminations,
transfers, pension, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution of monthly
payslips and debt management and verify documents. Responsible for
capturing transactions related to service terminations on PERSAL and audit
personnel and leave records. Maintenance of effective recordkeeping systems
and assist with registers related to PILIR, ORW’s etc. Assist with recruitment
and selection processes any other related support functions. Provide an
effective support service to supervisor, component and management (i.e. relief
duties and attending meetings).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Jooste Tel No: (022) 709 5082
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/218 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Registration with a Professional Council: Candidates must be registered as a
Security Officer Grade B or higher with the Security Board in terms of the
Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act (PSIRA). Experience: Appropriate
Security experience within a Healthcare institution. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts and be available on a 24-hour basis. Willing to
rotate when required. Must be willing to be deployed in different sections of
security department. A Valid Drivers License Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of security prescripts, regulations, procedures and the
Occupational Health & Safety Act. Good interpersonal communication skills
148
and ability to work in a team environment and independently. Be responsible,
diligent and ability to work under pressure
DUTIES : Ensure that private security adhere to contract specification, not misutilising
equipment and conduct crowd control. Supervise the inhouse security staff and
apply HR and disciplinary processes. Monitor and patrol the buildings, parking
areas and perimeter fencing and ensure effective key control. Investigate
crimes and incidents, and compiling writing reports and statements. Ensure
accurate entries are made in the Occurrence book by the security officers.
Monitor the CCTV Control Room and ensure effective of access control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndzuzo Tel No: (021) 404-3111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/219 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subjects and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management and Financial Management. Appropriate experience in
LOGIS. Appropriate experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic
purchasing system and in bid/tender administration (EPS). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Office, email and internet. Sound
knowledge of PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Instructions, AOS.
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration such as inviting of quotes,
supply of stock and to Maintain a database of contracts (ESL). Maintain O-9
files and follow-up with Suppliers on outstanding store stock and buy-outs
(RCDY). Capture requisitions and other documentation on the Supply Chain
(LOGIS) system. Communicate procurement request to the Quotation
Committee and End User. Provide support to Manager and assist within the
Supply Chain Component. Ensure compliance to all relevant laws and
prescripts in the Supply Chain Management and procurement function.
Perform duties related to EPS processes, evaluation and adjudication on
system and apply the RFB (Request for Buyout) process when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Linnert Tel No: (021) 937-3009
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/220 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate administrative experience in Hospital environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public
holidays. Relieve in other departments as operational requires. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good Communication Skills. Computer literacy (MS
Windows Word, Excel). Strong organisational and communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): -Deliver an effective comprehensive clerical service
within facility. Support to nursing staff. Daily filling of all patient information on
patient folders on discharge/transfers in an orderly manner. Effective utilisation
and management of physical resources. Information management. Effective
records management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Klem Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
149
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical test and competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/221 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (PATIENT ADMINISTRATION
AND FEES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent)
with Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the
Key Result Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Hospital Fees-related environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Excellent,
written and verbal communication skills and ability to maintain confidentiality.
Willingness to rotate within fees section. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer skills in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
Knowledge and experience in Clinicom, Accounts Receivable (AR) systems,
Basic Accounting System (BAS), Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS)
Manual, Hospital Memorandum 18, JAC and Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA).
DUTIES : Follow-up on medical aid and non-medical aid outstanding invoices in line with
Hospital Fees Manual Chapter 18 and related finance instructions, including
management of foreign debtors. General fees administration and account-
related duties/enquiries as per UPFS and billing requirements. Perform cashier
duties, including allocation of external funders and debtor payments as well as
completion of all BAS transactions e.g., deposits, day-ends, journals and
special journals. Control the JAC Information and JAC Error Report. Complete
the balancing and reconciliation processes between BAS and AR System.
Relief colleagues and undertake various other clerical duties as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Arendse/ Raymone.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za Tel No: (021) 860
2580
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/222 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in People Management administration and
PERSAL. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Written and verbal communication
skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook), numeracy
and mathematical skills. Knowledge of the People Management prescripts in
the Public Service. Good interpersonal and organisational skills and the ability
to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide an efficient and comprehensive personnel and administrative function
in line with relevant policy and prescripts. Provide and efficient PERSAL &
Salary administration function. Provide an efficient and effective Recruitment
and Selection in line with relevant policies and prescripts. Maintain effective
record keeping. Provide an efficient support function to Supervisor, colleagues
and Karl Bremer Hospital by efficient application of People Management
Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MC Adonis Tel No: (021) 834-5887
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
150
POST 26/223 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (STUDENT MATTERS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing (Southern Cape Karoo Campus, George)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior (or equivalent) Certificate.
Experience: Appropriate experience of system support/assistance Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (code B/EB) drivers license. Willingness to travel
and work overtime if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy in Microsoft Word and Excel. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Good numerical skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility
and to work independently and unsupervised. Ability to effectively handle
conflict. Self-Motivated and the ability to monitor and improve own work
performance.
DUTIES : Advanced academic administration of higher education and South African
Nursing Council. Responsible for Academic Programme administration
Effective delivery of advanced clerical tasks Responsible for all student matters
administration and related. Effective control of assets and ordering of stock.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mottian Tel No: (044) 813-1993
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/224 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (MEDICAL MANAGER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in an office environment and working in a
patient administration service environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid driver's licence. Willingness to work overtime, public holidays, after-hours
and weekends. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
effectively with medical & legal professionals and members of the public. Good
general communication, interpersonal, organizational, report-writing and
problem-solving skills. Computer literacy in MS Office Suite (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook Access). Appropriate experience in typing and minute-
taking skills.
DUTIES : Effectively manage the Medicolegal office and the office of the Manager
Medical Services (relief capacity). Relief in the Help Desk Manager role may
occasionally be required. Effectively manage Medicolegal requests, including
receiving, capturing, processing and finalizing medico-legal claim
administration. Governance of the Medicolegal service, including support to the
MMS; including ordering and control of stock / equipment, effective record
keeping and folder management, reasonable maintenance of office equipment.
Facilitate allied processes with regards to the requesting and subsequent
issuing of information to patient who request access to their health record in
line with the Provincial Access to Information Act, Financial Prescripts as well
as the Protection of Personal Information Act.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1990
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post he pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert.
Shortlisted Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/225 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in patient administration in a hospital
environment. Appropriate experience on Clinicom. Inherent requirements of
151
the job: Willingness to work in different departments when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge and experience in
Hospital systems (PHCIS/CLINICOM/HECTIS/Sinjani). Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Ability to function independently and within a team
environment. Computer literacy (Ms Office: Word, Excel, and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Rendering comprehensive clerical and administrative work. Provide
administrative support to Supervisor and the Multidisciplinary team. Patient
administration at ward level. Involvement in information Management at ward
level. Coordinate ordering, maintenance and availability of stock and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntombana Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subject to practical testing. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/226 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (TRANSITO
CLERK)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Financial and Supply Chain Management. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge and practical experience of the LOGIS System.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Ability to capture data
accurately and record keeping. Sound theoretical and practical knowledge of
policies regarding PFMA, Treasury Directives and legislation pertaining to
Supply Chain Management environment and AOS.
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement such as receiving of goods & services,
supply chain stock and to maintain a database of contracts. Maintain 0-9 files
and follow-up with Suppliers on outstanding store stock and buy-outs. Capture
requisitions/issues and receipt vouchers documentation on the LOGIS system.
Prepare order batches for payments. Filing and record keeping of receipt and
issues vouchers. Provide support to Manager and assist within the Supply
Chain Component. Ensure compliance to all relevant laws and prescripts in the
Supply Chain Management and procurement function. Maintain open
communications channel with suppliers. Ensure that all purchases are done
according to existing state contracts and delegations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cupido/ Ms E Abrahams Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/227 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (NURSING) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate secretarial and or Office Administration
experience in a Health environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability
to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Knowledge of NIMS. Excellent
typing skills, minute taking skills and Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Office Outlook) (Proof of training attached). Good planning
and organizational skills. Ability to work independently. Willingness to rotate to
different portfolios within Nursing administration department, relief and other
related duties.
152
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient secretarial support and administrative support to
Nursing. Manage the assistant manager nursing diary. Support to the
management of nursing agency contract. Effective meeting management
(minute taking and logistical arrangements) Provide effective /accurate typing
and data capturing. Draft routine correspondence, submission and reports.
Filling of documents timeously. Create register and maintain stats database for
compilation of monthly reports. Meet deadlines and remail updated regarding
relevant policies and procedures. Provide clerical support to nursing
management for recruitment and selection processes, retainment and timeous
submission of documentation to People management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken Tel No: (021 658-5187)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/228 : DMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMNAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic understanding of PM Recruitment and
Selection, Employment contracts, Employment equity and Permis. Ability to
maintain confidentiality. Knowledge of PERSAL. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Office Outlook).
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and run Recruitment and selection process. Assist with
compilation and placement of Advertisements. Perform general office
administration duties pertaining to personnel administration within Recruitment
and Selection. Assist with the PERMIS and SPMS process. Accurate record
keeping as well as attending to enquires/ correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Share Tel No: (021 658 5405)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/229 : TELKOM OPERATOR
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) /grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in operating an
electronic switchboard/PABX, a messaging and paging system. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shifts, weekends and
public holidays. Work overtime when required by operational needs. Physically
able to hear and speak clearly. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
operate an electronic switchboard. Excellent listening skills and telephone
etiquette. Computer literacy in Microsoft Packages (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Handle all outgoing and incoming calls. Manage switchboard, answer
telephonic queries and deliver messages. Ensure that switchboard and
telephone equipment is in working order. Handling of PABX and VOIP systems.
Monitor, place and record all cellular, national and international calls made.
Keep records of speed dial number. Send and receive calls via the 2-way radio.
Broadcast staff and information via broadcast system. Report all faults to
Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/230 : HEALTH PROMOTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
153
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-structure Office, Lady Michaelis CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7) Experience: Appropriate experience in working in
communities and informal settlements. Hospital / Clinic experience Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
render relief duties at the PHC platform within Southern Western Sub-structure
when necessary. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and
interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render a Health Promotion service within Facilities and surrounding
Community and provide Geographical support. Plan and implement health
projects in facilities, schools and communities to meet objectives and assist in
strengthening COPC in the community. Liaise with stakeholders to promote an
integrated approach to healthcare. Render Health education sessions and
support to clients. Assist teams with health promotion during campaigns and
keep effective records of activities and consumables. Work together with
students, assist them with health promotion projects, and compile community
profiles. Support to Facility Manager at Facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LE Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 797-8171
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Health Promoter posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/231 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of facility maintenance, welding and plumbing with
general electrical knowledge. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Must be prepared to work overtime as requested. Must
be physically able to perform the duties required. Must be able to work on
hights i.e. on ladders and scaffolding. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of and apply the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational
Health and Safety Act, as well as read, write and follow written instructions
including manuals and written procedures. Ability to optimally utilise allocated
resources such as tools and materials and be skilled in the usage of a variety
of tools. Ability to work independently and as part of a team. Ability to adhere
to safety standards. Ability to use a conventional lathe or milling machine.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance with maintenance and repairs of plumbing
components, including projects, installations and alterations, as well as minor
maintenance on buildings and facility grounds which include: Welding work as
required. Unblocking of sewer lines and toilets. Unblocking basins. Geyser
installation. Assist and perform preventative maintenance on plant and
equipment. Efficient and effective stock control. Efficient and effective control
over equipment, tools and working area. An effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1199
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/232 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (MATERNITY)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
154
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, public holidays
and overtime. Willingness to rotate within the facility and to work at other clinics
in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TW Ntombana Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/233 : TRADESMAN AID (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate
experience in a maintenance environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Must be prepared to work overtime as requested. Must be physically able to
perform the duties required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
and apply the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as well as read, write and follow written instructions including
manuals and written procedures. Ability to optimally utilise allocated resources
such as tools and materials and be skilled in the usage of a variety of tools.
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance of maintenance and repair functions,
including project, installations and alterations. Efficiently and effectively stock
control. Efficiently and effectively controlled equipment, tools and working area.
An effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1199
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/234 : OPERATOR: TUBE FEED ROOM
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7) Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital tube
feed service. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime on
public holidays and weekends. Physically able to perform physical tasks such
as lifting, packing, and pushing heavy trolleys. Competencies
155
(knowledge/skills): Ability to read and write. Basic numerical skills with an ability
to adapt tube feed recipes. Basic knowledge of nutritional products.
Knowledge of kitchen hygiene practices. Basic knowledge of storekeeping and
stock management. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Basic stock taking, Perform basic administrative tasks as required within the
department. Delivery and dispensing of tube feeds and supplements. Maintain
optimal hygiene standards in the Tube Feed Room and store area. Preparation
of tube feeds and oral supplements in the Tube Feed Room.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A du Toit Tel No: (021) 404 4471
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment Basic stock taking,
Perform basic administrative tasks as required within the department. Delivery
and dispensing of tube feeds and supplements. Maintain optimal hygiene
standards in the Tube Feed Room and store area. Preparation of tube feeds
and oral supplements in the Tube Feed Room.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/235 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience of handling linen within a health
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime,
after- working hours, weekends and public holidays when operationally
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Perform hard physical tasks, e.g.
lifting of heavy linen bags to and from the linen bank and wards Knowledge of
stock and infection control. Knowledge in the correct methods of handling,
sorting and counting of linen. Basic knowledge in washing and sluicing of linen.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness, hygienic and safe environment. Daily
collection of dirty, fouled and infected linen (in bags) from wards to the linen
bank. Delivering of clean linen to the wards. Daily sorting, counting and sluicing
of dirty linen prior to transfer of linen to Central Laundry. Daily issuing,
unpacking and checking of clean linen. Provide a supporting service to the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Arafdien Tel No: (021) 940-4427
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/236 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, including night shifts. Willingness to handle dead
bodies/corpses. Must have sober habits to ensure safety and reliability on the
job. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure and work
in a team. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to handle heavy
objects. Ability to handle conflict.
DUTIES : Accompany walking patients and transport sitting/non-walking patients per
wheelchair/trolley from reception to the consulting rooms or from the consulting
rooms to the treatment centres. Direct or accompany visitors to various
destinations. Assist with the loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicle
and transfer of patients to beds/trolley and vice versa. Transferring deceased
patients to the mortuary and complete registers. Delivery of medical
documentation (patient files, reports, etc.) to the reception area, including the
pharmacy. Delivery of medical equipment, suppliers, and other items like blood
156
samples and medical records. Responsible for the cleanliness, maintenance,
and reporting of defects of trolleys and wheelchairs. Effective support to
colleagues and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Lewela Tel No: (021) 360-5209
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undertake a pre-entry assessment test/practical assessment
and formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
POST 26/237 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC) (SESSIONAL: 20 HOURS
PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
(6 Months Renewable)
SALARY : Grade 1: R262 per hour
Grade 2: R306 per hour
Grade 3: R358 per hour
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic Radiography in respect of RSA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in the Radiography (Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography
in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work flexible and after-hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of protocols and radiation protection. Quality
assurance and equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and performance
effectively as part of a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of PACS and
Radiology information systems. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide a Radiographic service. Produce diagnostic images of high quality.
Optimal patient care. Safe use and care of equipment. Accurate record keeping
and management of radiology unit at George Regional Hospital. Assist with
training of junior radiographers. Participate in continuing professional
development activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Loff Tel No: (044) 802-4567
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Radiographer (Diagnostics) posts within the Chief
Director Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 08 August 2025
157