PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 30 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 22 AUGUST 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR: Please take note the post of
Assistant Director: Organizational Development with Ref No. HR4/25/07/50HO for Head
Office, Pretoria is withdrawn. The post was advertised on Public Service Vacancy
Circular 23 dated 04 July 2025 with a closing date of 18 July 2025. Apology for
inconvenience. Enquiries contact Mr S Nkhabelane Tel No: (012) 309 4747. The post of
OHS Inspector: Mechanical Engineering with Ref No. HR4/4/6/03 for Labour Centre:
East London and the post of Client Service Officer: IES with Ref No. HR4/4/6/01 for
Labour Centre: Cradock are withdrawn. These posts were advertised on Public Service
Vacancy Circular 28 dated 08 August 2025 with a closing date of 22 August 2025.
Apology for inconvenience. Enquiries contact Mr M Mapete Tel No: (043) 701 3123
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES A 03 - 05
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM B 06 - 10
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE C 11 - 22
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING D 23 - 29
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES E 30 - 32
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 33 - 42
NATIONAL TREASURY G 43 - 47
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE H 48 - 50
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT I 51 - 53
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE J 54 - 56
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS K 57
TRANSPORT L 58 – 60
WATER AND SANITATION M 61 - 63
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE N 64 - 68
FREE STATE O 69 - 84
GAUTENG P 85 - 105
KWAZULU NATAL Q 106 - 111
MPUMALANGA R 112 - 113
NORTHERN CAPE S 114 - 120
WESTERN CAPE T 121 - 148
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
Note: Before you apply: All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The
Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will take into
consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996
(Act 108 of 1996) and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is
our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of
these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status
on the application form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific
determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be
considered.
APPLICATIONS : Send your complete application to:
Eastern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Eastern Cape.
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X9013, East London or hand delivers at: Moore
Street, Block E Ocean Terrace Quigney, East London, 5211 OR you can email
your application to ECHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Ms Myataza Z
(043) 706 7866/ Ms Mgugudo N (043) 706 7882/ Mr Ndonyela N Tel No: (043)
706 7883.
Free State and Northern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Free
State and Northern Cape, Recruitment Section, P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein,
9300 or hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street, Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein,
9300 or you can email your application to FSNCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Ms Mokuni NJ (051) 404 0268/ Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms. Moreki-
Rathaba MP/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (051) 404 0283.
Gauteng Region: The Regional Commissioner Gauteng, Recruitment
Section, P/Bag X393, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at: 1077 Forum East
Building, Arcadia Street, Hatfield or you can email your application to
GPHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Mr Masango SS Tel No: (012) 420
0173/ Ms Feni SAP Tel No: (012) 420 0173/ (012) 420 0179.
Kwa-Zulu Natal Region: The Regional Commissioner: Kwa-Zulu Natal,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X9126, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 OR hand deliver
at: Correctional Services, Eugene Marais Road, Napierville, Pietermaritzburg,
3201 OR you can email your application to KZNHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Ms Mkhize AL Tel No: (033) 355 7370/ Mr Khumalo SB Tel No: (033)
033 355 7368.
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West Region: The Regional
Commissioner Limpopo, Mpumalanga & North West, Recruitment Section,
P/Bag X142, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at: Cnr Johannes Ramokhoase
(Proes) & Paul Kruger Street, 196 Masada Building, 09th Floor, Pretoria, 0001
or you can email your application to LMNHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons:
Mr Ziqubu Z (012) 306 2037/ Ms Nomvela PM Tel No: (012) 306 2033/ Ms
Lekhuleni TD Tel No: (012) 306 2034.
Western Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Western Cape,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X14, Goodwood, 7459 or hand deliver at:
Peninsula Drive, Monte Vista, 7460 or you can email your application to
WCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Ms NA Mdladlamba Tel No: (021) 550
6014 / Ms A Reddy (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane Tel No: (021) 558 0108 /
Ms NC Sotyibi Tel No: (021) 558 0518.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 at 15h45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to
ensure that their application reaches DCS before the closing date.
NOTE : Candidates must comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CVs
should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert
requirements and responsibilities. Kindly indicate the reference number on the
subject line for emailed applications. The Department of Correctional Services
reserves the right not to fill any of these advertised posts. Please take note that
correspondence will only be conducted with the shortlisted candidates. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application is unsuccessful. Please do
not call the department to enquire about the progress of your application.
Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted once they are
shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these
checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
3
verification and criminal records verification. Appointment will be provisional,
pending the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security
clearance, your appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated.
Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the interview. Applications:
Applications must be submitted on the Z83 form (Public Service application
form) obtainable from any Public Service department and must be completed
in full. Only a detailed CV should be attached to your application form. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies not older than
6 months of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Please send a separate and complete application for each post
you apply for, stating the correct reference for each position you are interested
in. For re-advertised posts, candidates who previously applied need to re-
apply.
OTHER POST
POST 30/01 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1
SALARY : R848 862 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region:
Mthatha Ref No: EC 2025/07/01
Free State and Northern Cape region:
Colesberg Ref No: FSNC 2025/07/01)
Goedemoed Ref No: FSNC 2025/07/02)
Upington Ref No: FSNC 2025/07/03)
Gauteng region:
Baviaanspoort Ref No: GP 2025/07/01
Krugersdorp Ref No: GP 2025/07/02
Zonderwater Ref No: GP 2025/07/03
KwaZulu Natal region: Glencoe Ref No: KZN 2025/07/01
Empangeni Ref No: KZN 2025/07/02
Ncome Ref No: KZN 2025/07/03
Waterval Ref No: KZN 2025/07/04
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and Northwest region:
Thohoyandou Ref No: LMN 2025/07/01
Rooigrond Ref No: LMN 2025/07/02
Western Cape region:
Helderstroom Ref No: WC 2025/07/01
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC)
that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Valid drivers’ licence. Computer literate. Competencies
And Attributes: Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative
framework. Knowledge of public health. Good financial management,
communication, evaluation, problem solving and analysis skills. Effective
project, programme, transformation, change and stakeholder management.
Service delivery innovation, decision making, people management,
empowerment, integrity, honesty, confidentiality and good interpersonal
relations. Accuracy, assertiveness and ability to network.
DUTIES : Manage the pharmacy facility in terms of applicable legislation, regulations and
policies. Perform risk management and networking (internal and external
stakeholders). Issuing and control of medicine. Render basic pharmaceutical
services to offenders. Maintain good medical practice. Adhere to medical
standards. Write reports and keep records. Provide training where necessary.
Liaise with internal and external counterparts regarding pharmaceutical
delivery. Adhere to departmental policies and orders. Effectively utilise and
manage resource (financial, human, information, pharmaceutical stock and
equipment). Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ Tel No: (051) 404
0268/ Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms. Moreki-Rathaba MP/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No:
(051) 404 0283.
Gauteng Region: Mr Masango SS Tel No: (012) 420 0173/ Ms Feni SAP Tel
No: (012) 420 0173/ (012) 420 0179.
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West Region: Mr Ziqubu Z Tel No: (012)
306 2037/ Ms Nomvela PM Tel No: (012) 306 2033/ Ms Lekhuleni TD Tel No:
(012) 306 2034.
KwaZulu Natal Region: Ms Mkhize AL Tel No: (033) 355 7370/ Mr Khumalo
SB Tel No: (033) 033 355 7368.
4
Western Cape Region: Ms NA Mdladlamba Tel No: (021) 550 6014 / Ms A
Reddy Tel No: (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane Tel No: (021) 558 0108 / Ms
NC Sotyibi Tel No: (021) 558 0518.
Eastern Cape region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/ Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882/ Mr Ndonyela N Tel No: (043) 706 7883.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act.
5
ANNEXURE B
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the
EE Act of 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resource policies of the department will be taken
into consideration. People with disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore,
preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its EE
targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will be given preference regardless
of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General (DG) of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria 0001, hand
deliver to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard and Festival streets,
Hatfield, Pretoria or to the email address provided.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P. Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae only. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG, particulars of
all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and
employment contract with the DG within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful
candidates will sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be
reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) of 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed
by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes in accordance with POPIA.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/02 : JUNIOR GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/28
Directorate: Media Production
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Graphic Design or equivalent related qualification majoring in
Graphic Design. General exposure in the field will be an added advantage. The
candidate must have basic knowledge in the use of an Apple Macintosh
computer. Must be proficient in Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign
(animation and 3-D skills are a bonus). Must have the ability to develop creative
and innovative design concepts. Strong design skills and thorough knowledge
of designing for different platforms including digital and social media. Good
6
organisational and communication skills. The ability to work under pressure,
overtime and meet deadlines. Should be highly motivated with an eye for detail
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for collaborating with the design
manager on the overall look and feel for all design products. Working as a
graphic designer on various products as per brief. Conceptualising and
handling visual execution of all design briefs. Development of creative
concepts. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rachel Sekhu Tel No: (012) 473 0254
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment5@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 30/03 : SOCIAL MEDIA OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/29
Directorate: Digital Media
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Digital Communication, Digital Marketing, Multimedia, or
equivalent related qualification majoring in Digital Communication, Digital
Marketing, Multimedia. General exposure in the field will be an added
advantage. The candidate must have basic understanding of planning content,
writing and maintaining social media content, and using social media as part
of a communication plan. Knowledge of web and social media content
management systems (CMS), videography, photography and/or graphic
design. Knowledge of, and an interest in, current affairs and the functioning of
government. Knowledge of latest trends in social media practices is also
necessary. Excellent English writing and sub-editing skills are essential. The
candidate should possess planning and organising skills, excellent
interpersonal, liaison and communication skills, and the ability to work as part
of a team, accurately, under pressure and meet short deadlines. The candidate
must be computer literate.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be part of a team responsible for the continuous
updating, maintenance and improvement of social media accounts and
websites maintained by GCIS. This includes liaising with role-players,
preparing content for the social media accounts (abstracting, writing, language
and content editing), updating website content on a Drupal content
management system, and creating dynamic written, graphic and video content
that promotes audience interaction on the social media accounts managed by
GCIS using Adobe. The candidate will also write and distribute e-newsletter to
mailing list subscribers and use a social media monitoring tool to listen,
monitor, and engage with target audiences proactively. Please detail courses
passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Senzeni Ngubane Tel No: (012) 473 0402
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment6@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 30/04 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: CREDITORS
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/32
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
7
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Public Management / Administration/ Logistics Management /
Public Finance/ Accounting or Purchasing Management or equivalent
qualification majoring in Public Management / Administration/ Logistics
Management / Public Finance/ Accounting or Purchasing Management.
General exposure in the field will be an added advantage. The candidate must
have basic knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and Procurement Integration (PI).
Excellent writing and communication skills, ability to manage and plan. Ability
to interpret and apply legislation and policies (PFMA, Preferential Procurement
Regulations, BBBEE, Treasury regulations, Contracts, etc.). Ability to work
independently without close supervision. Ability to handle multiple tasks
simultaneously and able to work under pressure. The incumbent should be
self-driven, creative, innovative, flexible and highly motivated. Excellent co-
ordination skills. Ability to work in a team. Client service orientated. Have
initiative and pay close attention to detail. Report writing. Knowledge of the
Microsoft packages, i.e. MS word, MS Excel as well as Ms Outlook. Payment
capturing and statements interpretation.
DUTIES : Capture payments on LOGIS Integration and BAS. Confirm Banking Details on
CSD before capturing payments. Export entities from CSD to BAS. Verify
allocation for correctness before capturing payments on the payment
processing systems. Verify authenticity of signatures on the documents before
capturing payments. Also ensure compliance of all documents attached before
capturing payments on the system. Ensure correct information is captured on
these payment processing systems. Monitoring and prioritisation of payments
to ensure that no payments are processed after 30 days as well as outside the
standards set by the department. Ensure that invoices with queries are raised
immediately with the relevant suppliers to ensure that invoices are still paid
within the required standards. Run departmental 0-9 file. Send departmental 0-
9 file inputs to sections for IFS/AFS. Provide accurate information in relation to
Annual and Interim Financial Statements (Commitments, Accruals and
Payables) Ensure that accounts of creditors of the department are not
outstanding for more than 30 days. Assist in linking invoices on ITS (Invoice
tracking system) Provide accurate information in relation to Annual and Interim
Financial Statements (Commitments, Accruals and Payables) timeously.
Respond to enquiries and queries timeously and keeping record of
enquires/queries handled including the turnaround time. Compile accurate
work statistics. when required assist with the compilation of the 30 Days report
of payments. Assist with the BBBEE statistical data reports. Assist with the
preauthorisation of payments where required. Provide general office support.
Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mendy Hlungwane Tel No: (012) 473 0180
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment7@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 30/05 : SENIOR ASSET CLERK REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/33
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Public Management/Administration/Logistics Management or
Purchasing Management. General exposure in the field will be an added
advantage. The candidate must have excellent communication and
interpersonal relation skills. Computer literate and have an ability to work well
under pressure. Knowledge of LOGIS and asset management through Logis,
Valid driver’s license, prepared to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible the asset management. Manage
the asset disposal process. Ensure proper control of departmental assets
register. Developing and implementing action plans for asset management in
8
terms of asset verification, disposal. Compiling and typing of submissions. Bar-
cording of Departmental Assets. Handling asset related queries, Conduction
asset verification in Head Office and Provincial Offices. Regular updating of
asset registers, Reconciliation between BAS and the LOGIS system. Please
detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mendrick Mlondobozi Tel No: (012) 473 0182
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment9@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 30/06 : SENIOR SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/34
Sub-Directorate: Internal Communication
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Communications/Public Relations/ Journalism/ Media Studies or
equivalent qualification majoring in Communications/Public Relations/
Journalism/ Media Studies. General exposure in the environment will be an
added advantage. Basic understanding of planning and generating content for
the intranet and its usage as part of a communication plan. General exposure
in the communication field, photo and videography and working on intranet
sites will be an added advantage. Personal Attributes: Resourceful, people
oriented, trustworthy, punctual and hard-working. Self-motivated and able to
work independently.
DUTIES : Responsible for the maintenance and updating of the intranet site. Generate
content for the intranet site. Assist in writing and creating content for Internal
Communications platforms (WhatsApp, inhouse news-bulletins, etc).
Management of the switchboard and its operations including the supervision of
personnel in the Switchboard. Provide support on all internal communication
events and campaigns including the updating of the noticeboard structure.
Assist with photo and videographic services. Perform administrative work such
the completion of monthly projections, assist with travelling logistics;
compilation of reports. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the
academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tebogo Kgomo Tel No: (012) 473 0233
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment12@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 30/07 : COMMUNICATION CLERK REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/35
Directorate: Rapid Response
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Communication/ Journalism/ Media Studies, or equivalent
qualification majoring in Communication/ Journalism/ Media Studies. General
exposure in the environment will be an added advantage. Excellent
communication (written & oral) and interpersonal skills. Exceptional organizing
and planning skills. Ability to work independently, under pressure and in a team.
Ability to multi-task, manage events, and work with databases and
presentations. Good time management and pro-activeness. Understanding of
government's mandate, as well as development communication. The
incumbent must also have problem solving skills, innovation and results
9
orientated who pays attention to detail. Excellent writing, communication and
engagement skills including the ability to turn technical information into simple
language content. Availability outside standard office hours and travel when
needed.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing support to the
directorate on communication and engagement initiatives. Assist in
coordination of the daily rapid response system and further assist in monitoring
the communication environment and flagging issues of concern. Support
various tasks within the directorate and assist in the implementation of
communication interventions and record keeping. Contribute to the
development of content within the unit. Assist team members in increasing their
productivity by ensuring they have up-to-date support material. Liaise with
other directorates within the organisation. Draft/repackage report for branch
submission and other reports. Provide overall administrative support to Rapid
Response. Draft communication content as and when required. Write routine
notes, memos, letters, and reports and collate inputs from the units and various
stakeholders. File on SharePoint. Assist with implementing new ideas to
change existing procedures to improve filing, tasking and document tracking.
Coordinate effective internal and external meetings, appointments and events.
Compile agenda and take accurate minutes and action matrix during meetings.
Handle claims and budget cash flow information for the directorate. Manage
the leave register, leave plans, and leave rooster for directorate. Provide
documents as and when required by Internal Audit. Maintain effective stock
levels of stationery, cartridges, and other consumables. Please detail courses
passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mary Dorasami Tel No: (012) 4730170
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment13@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
10
ANNEXURE C
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
The GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and reasonable accommodation is
provided for persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and a fully completed Z83 form will not be considered.
Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates
will be subjected to security vetting to confirm employment, personnel
suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency assessment prior to the
interview. Short-listed candidates must make themselves available for a panel
interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications, and those not
meeting the requirements, will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to EE and Gender target. In
accordance with the DPSA Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development,
Mandatory Training Days and Minimum requirements, this SMS level
appointment will be subject to the completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The
applicants should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
entry certificate and have completed the course before the appointment. The
cost of the pre-entry certificate is at the candidate’s expense. To access the
pre-certificate course, please visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/08 : TEAM LEAD: PROJECT MANAGEMENT: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO:
G08/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Term: 24 Months Fixed Term Contract
The purpose of this job is to provide strategic and technical advice in the
management of the Jobs Fund portfolio of projects and contribute to the
knowledge and learning agenda of the Fund.
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced Diploma/ BTech degree (NQF 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Development Finance; Economics; Business Management;
Project Management; Project Finance, or related fields. NQF level 7
qualification or internationally recognised certification in Project Management
or a related field would be advantageous. Post Graduate qualification in
Development Finance; Economics; Business Management; Project
Management; Project Finance, or related field would be advantageous. At
least 7 years’ experience in investment management and track record working
with local economic development programmes in respect of undertaking
appraisals of applications for grant funding, managing the contracting process
for the projects approved for grant funding, and the periodic monitoring
performance of projects. At least 7 years’ experience and track record in
respect of economic project/programme development and support. 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Strong economics background
(Development/Behavioural/Micro) with experience in active labour market
interventions. A strong financial background, in respect of financial analysis of
project financial models and knowledge of different economic sectors.
Competencies Required: Client Service Orientation: Client-service orientation
11
implies helping or serving others to meet their needs. It means focusing on
discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet them, as well as putting
into practice the Batho Pele spirit. The term “clients” refers to both internal and
external clients. Change Leadership: The ability to deliver the message of
change in both words and actions and motivate people to change. It energises
and alerts groups to the need for specific changes in the way things are done.
It involves taking responsibility to champion the change effort through building
and maintaining support and commitment. Concern for Quality and Order:
Desire to see things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms:
monitoring and checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles
and duties, setting up and maintaining an information system. Effective
Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to
maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical
conduct and understands the impact of violating these standards on an
organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Networking and Influencing:
Establishes, maintains and utilizes a relevant network of contacts in order to
keep a pulse on public, political and internal issues and make informed
decisions. It implies an intention to persuade, convince, influence, or impress
others in order to meet the intended objectives Organisational Awareness: The
ability to understand and learn the power of relationships in one’s own
organisation or in other organisations. This includes the ability to identify the
real decision makers, the individuals who can influence them, and to predict
how new events or situations will affect individuals and groups within the
Department. People Development and Management: Mobilises people to work
toward a shared purpose in the best interests of the department, the people
comprising it and the people it serves. It involves attracting, supporting,
developing and retaining a talented and diverse workforce. Managers
demonstrate concern for individual differences and employee morale and
foster employee development through responsibility sharing, learning and
training opportunities. Problem Solving and Analysis: Understanding a
situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the
implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts
of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic way; making systematic
comparisons of different features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational
basis; and identifying time sequences, causal relationships, or if-then
relationships. Create timely and well-developed solutions by examining
alternatives, risks and consequences. Resilience: Ability to cap one’s emotions
to avoid negative reactions when provoked, when faced with opposition or
hostility, or when working under stress. It also includes the ability to maintain
stamina under continuing stress. Resources Planning: Organises work, sets
priorities and determines resource requirements; determines short- or long-
term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinates with other
organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish goals; monitors
progress and evaluates outcomes. Results Orientation: Concern for holding
yourself and others accountable for achieving results or for surpassing a
standard of excellence. It includes the process of setting measurable
objectives, implementing change and then checking back to determine the
effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past performance
(striving for improvement); an objective measure (results orientation);
outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one has set, or even
what anyone has ever done (innovation). Strategic Orientation: Strategic
orientation is about taking a broad scale, long-term view, assessing options
and implications. It demonstrates an intimate understanding of the capabilities,
nature and potential of the department. It involves taking calculated risks based
on an awareness of societal, economic, market and political issues, trends,
processes and outcomes as they impact the strategic direction of the
department and its linkages with the direction of government. Systems
Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or
divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to
connect with initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing
information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for
others. Economic Development: Knowledge/ understanding of how labour
12
markets work; active labour market policy interventions. Understanding of and
development of local economic development and making markets work for the
poor are approaches to development. Corporate Finance/ Project
Finance/structured finance/ Grant Management: Specific area of finance
dealing with the financial decisions corporations make and the tools as well as
analyses, used to make these decisions. The discipline as a whole may be
divided among long-term and short-term decisions and techniques with the
primary goal being the enhancing of corporate value by ensuring that return on
capital exceeds cost of capital, without taking excessive financial risks. Policy
Development, Management and Dissemination: Knowledge of Treasury-
related legislation, the legislative process and public affairs as it pertains to NT.
Includes the ability to monitor legislation that is of interest to Treasury. Utilises
a wide variety of resources and tools to develop, maintain, monitor, enforce
and provide oversight of policies and regulations. Project Management:
Knowledge of the principles, methods, or tools for developing, scheduling,
coordinating, and managing projects and resources, including monitoring and
inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance. Communication/
Knowledge Management: Verbal and writing skills, Stakeholder engagement
and writing up case studies. Impact evaluation: Understanding impact
evaluation methodologies, implementing evaluation programmes.
DUTIES : Management of funding round incl. Application, Appraisal and Approval:
Conduct research on economic sectors and financial models and provide
strategic input on the design of the Fund, future funding rounds and develop
impact assessment criteria. Originate new projects to strengthen the Jobs Fund
Project Pipeline. Select high-impact projects aligned to the term sheet, Jobs
Fund policies and knowledge outcomes. Provide quality assurance on
allocated project portfolio, including administrative support related to project
decision records, minutes etc. Support staff and applicants with thought
leadership on the design of applications. Analyse project applications, including
the financial model and advise on the feasibility of the application. Analyse
Annual Financial Statements (AFS), Management Accounts, Financial Ratios,
past and future cash flows and other financial data to determine the feasibility
of the application. Contracting: Quality assurance of Activity Based Costing
Project Implementation Monitoring Plans (ABC PIMPs). Ensure that the
contracting ABC PIMP is per the one provided at appraisal to the Jobs Fund
Investment Committee (JFIC) and that all numbers are as per the Executive
Summary. Ensure that the approved Financial Models are accurately reflected
in the contracting documents and are aligned with the Jobs Fund Operating
Guidelines. Review Matched Funding agreements and documentation. Provide
quality assurance on all contracting documents. Ensure that all contracting
conditions have been met and that the Grant Agreement and Annexures are
finalised as per the agreed timeframes. Support the Team in resolving all issues
related to the finalisation of the Grant Agreement. Post-Investment Monitoring:
Ensure the project portfolio is implemented as per the Grant Agreement. This
includes ensuring that grant conditions are met, e.g. matched funding,
maintenance of approved financial model and job targets. Maintain oversight
of the financial records in instances where the Jobs Fund Partner transacts
from accounts other than the dedicated project bank account. Ensure that
evidence of project indicators, including jobs and financial records, is quality
assured and maintained i.e. all project records must be accurate and audit
ready in the RACI Folder. Ensure that the project portfolio submissions to
governance committees (Disbursement Committee (DP), Project
Implementation Review Meeting (PIRM), Secondary Bank Account Meetings
(SBA) are quality assured and aligned with Jobs Fund Standards. Quality
assure and ensure that Project Close-Out Reports (PCRs), Year-End Review
(YER) and Project Surplus processes are finalised timeously. Manage timeous
resolution of Audit Logs. Review the Project Financial Audits and ensure that
all submitted audits are in line with the Operating Guidelines. Relationship
Management: Manage relationships within the Jobs Fund. Manage relationship
with Jobs Fund Partners. Identify and build relationship with key stakeholders
in the Jobs Fund ecosystem with a view to building the Jobs Fund brand.
Proactively identify potential funding sources and opportunities for
collaboration at the Fund and Project Level. Knowledge harvesting and
sharing: Implement the Jobs Fund internal knowledge sharing strategy which
includes the management and/or production of: Practice notes, Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs), Brown bags, Project Close-Out Reports.
Implement an external knowledge strategy for the Jobs Fund which includes
13
the management and/or production of: Research papers/ Learning series,
Community of Practice (COP/ Webinars),Newsletters/Opinion Pieces/Social
Media and Creating a network of key influencers and stakeholders. Assist with
design of project evaluations and the production of Knowledge Pieces.
Conduct independent research on Active Labour Market policies and
interventions with a view to improving the Jobs Fund response to market
conditions. Talent Management: Proactively search for talent to build the Jobs
Fund’s capabilities. Develop the team so that they achieve and maintain high
performance by improving the skills and deepening the capacity of the team.
Improve the performance of the team and manage the achievement of team
deliverables and targets. Assess staff skills gaps & align unit training plan to
skills gaps. Manage team resources. Manage individual team member
performance, assess and provide feedback. Organise and manage Team
building events. Strategy Implementation and Risk Management: Participate
and provide input into the strategic planning processes of the Jobs Fund.
Contribute to the development of a risk management framework for the Jobs
Fund. Identify portfolio risks, including jobs and disbursement risks, identify and
implement mitigation measures and analyse impact. Efficiently implement the
jobs and disbursement strategy of the Jobs Fund and identify opportunities for
improvement. Review and update the Jobs Fund Operating Guidelines and
Standard Operating Procedures on an ongoing basis. Manage strategic
initiatives to improve the Jobs Fund’s performance. Strategic management of
project portfolio performance, including timeous escalation and resolution of
issues, risk-based site visits, attendance at Project Steercom meetings, etc.
Provide support for the development, assessment, and management of project
improvement plans. Implement and adhere to timelines and processes of the
Disbursement Framework. Support the development of a business case for the
Jobs Fund and provide inputs into the annual budget process
ENQUIRIES : HR EnquirieS: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/09 : MONITORING AND REPORTING SPECIALIST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO:
G09/2025
Term: 24 months fixed-term contract
The purpose the role is to manage, monitor and track the performance of a
portfolio of Jobs Fund (JF) projects; to provide regular reporting on project
progress; to design and execute/manage knowledge-generating projects (e.g.
evaluations, case studies, etc.), which would include the development of key
documents to promote the lessons learned by the organisation; to manage
operational matters within the Knowledge & Evaluation Unit, and perform an
advisory and supervisory role in the Unit.
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech degree (NQF Level 7) in
Economics, Social Sciences or related fields. A Post graduate qualification in
Monitoring and Evaluation, and/or Statistical Analysis will be an advantage. A
minimum of 6 - 8 years relevant experience in Monitoring, Measurement and
Evaluation of development programmes/ projects, at least 2 years of which at
a management level. Experience in the public sector will also be an added
advantage. Competencies Required: Computer literacy: Knowledge and ability
to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level
someone has with using computer programs and other applications associated
with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new
applications associated with the business. Data Analysis: Relevant experience
and knowledge on how to collect reliable, valid and accurate data and perform
objective analysis. Database Management: Knowledge of the principles,
procedures, and tools of data management, such as modelling techniques,
data backup, data recovery, data dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining,
data disposal, and data standardisation processes. Development Financing:
Knowledge of development financing approaches and methods, including the
financing of long-term projects and public services based upon a non-recourse
or limited recourse financial structure, in which project debt and equity used to
finance the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project.
Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic development
14
policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches and
methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Monitoring, Evaluation
Reporting and Learning: In-depth knowledge of establishing monitoring,
evaluation, reporting and learning (MERL) frameworks and indicators, and
development and implementation of qualitative and quantitative MERL
approaches, methodologies and tools. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of
the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental relationships, and
the economic and social development priorities and programmes of national,
provincial and local governments. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant
funding (non-repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory
environment governing the management of public funds. This includes
knowledge of the South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant
management systems. Information Management: The ability to gather,
prepare, house and share the organisationally relevant information produced
or found through work in a manner that creates easy access and
understanding, and that informs and educates the reader regarding the subject.
Labour Markets: Knowledge of how labour markets work and the current active
labour market policy interventions. Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the
regulatory environment and processes regarding the implementation of
policies, legislation and service delivery programmes, and knowledge of the
PFMA and NT regulations pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management:
Knowledge of project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
Knowledge of the field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them. Client Service Orientation: The ability to
interact with and respond to internal and external client needs and expectations
in a manner that puts into practice the Batho Pele spirit and meets and exceeds
service delivery standards, with priority given to client satisfaction. Effective
Communication: The ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Information Sharing: Both the motivation
to expand and use one's knowledge and the willingness to share this
knowledge with others. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the
integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical conduct and
understands the impact of violating these standards on an organisation, self,
and others; is trustworthy. Networking and Influencing: Establishes, maintains
and utilises a relevant network of contacts in order to keep a pulse on public,
political and internal issues and make informed decisions. It implies an
intention to persuade, convince, influence, or impress others in order to meet
the intended objectives. Organisational Awareness: The ability to understand
and learn the power relationships in one’s own organisation or in other
organisations. This includes the ability to identify the real decision makers, the
individuals who can influence them, and to predict how new events or situations
will affect individuals and groups within the Department. Problem Solving and
Analysis: The ability to understand a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking
it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step
way. It includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic
way; making systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting
priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal
relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources
Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then checking back
to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Systems Thinking:
15
Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or divisions
within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to connect the
initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing information or
resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for others. Vision
and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high personal and professional
standards that support the organisation’s vision, mandate and values. Sharing
goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to and be
enthusiastic about realising the vision.
DUTIES : This is a senior-level position where core responsibilities are at a programme
and supervisory level and include: Supervisory responsibilities over
workstream teams and their task delivery. Process, project and resource
planning. Independent manager of a portfolio of projects and Monitoring,
Evaluation, Reporting & Learning (MERL)representative with internal &
external stakeholders. Independent generator of advanced portfolio &
programme knowledge and lessons learnt. Supervised dissemination of
learnings. Projects Monitoring and Reporting Planning: Design and develop
monitoring and measurement plans for JF projects at project inception to
ensure integration of monitoring and measurement at all project phases. Lead
Monitoring & Reporting (M&R) planning and design meetings for the:
determination of project outcomes, outputs and measurement criteria, design
of results chains, identification of data sources for baseline assessments and
development of data collection methods. Develop and submit proposals for JF
project monitoring and reporting systems. Collate, process and lodge JF
project monitoring and measurement plans. Establish and communicate JF
projects’ monitoring and reporting schedule and requirements. Appraise the
Project Implementation Monitoring Plans and Theory of Change of new project
applications. Advise on the use of job proxies when required. Jobs Fund
Projects Monitoring and Reporting Administration and Quality Assurance:
Quality assure JF project reports from the Grant Management System (GMS).
Test the validity and integrity of Jobs Fund Partner project-reported information
against norms and standards, review the evidence submitted by Jobs Fund
Partners for accuracy and facilitate the corrections, where required. Align with
Donor Community Enterprise Development (DCED) standards. Prepare
recommendations for the enhancement of monitoring and reporting processes
and procedures. Analyse and disseminate data for reporting purposes.
Participate in meetings, workshops and other discussion forums internally and
externally to the JF to establish dialogue on reported project progress and
evaluation results. Design and manage data verification and quality assurance
processes. Supervise and support the verification activities of unit members.
Quality-assure documents prior to submission to management. Monitoring and
reporting capacity development and learning: Ongoing liaison and engagement
with Jobs Fund stakeholders regarding the monitoring, evaluation and
reporting on all aspects of the project, and design and implement capacity
building sessions where required. Conduct awareness and promotion sessions
for stakeholders on the utilisation of results-based monitoring, measurement
and reporting tools and systems and the Jobs Fund reporting mechanisms.
Collate, analyse and disseminate learning reports from client feedback, case
studies, reviews and project evaluations. Participate in research networks on
job creation, employment and systemic change, and collect, collate, distribute
and file participation reports. Monitoring and reporting processes and tools
research and development: Participate in research and benchmarking projects
with established international institutions on best practices and trends
pertaining to monitoring and reporting, and the preparation, analysis and
distribution of research reports. Integrate research findings into monitoring and
evaluation tools and practices. Maintain and update, as required, JF projects’
monitoring, evaluation and reporting processes, procedures and tools and
processes. Lead the internal and external dissemination of Monitoring
Evaluation (M&E) knowledge, work on various platforms. Monitoring and
reporting management and supervision: Lead project appraisals, providing
guidance to team members to ensure comprehensive and well-thought-out
reviews. Design, execute and manage research/evaluation projects for the
Jobs Fund and convert research/evaluation reports into knowledge products
for different audiences. Be responsible for the roll-out of change management
processes concerning the uptake of new M&E tools and strategies. Train junior
staff on Jobs Fund M&E frameworks and processes. Support and mentor junior
staff members, and quality assure their deliverables where required. Support
the Head of Monitoring & Evaluation in managing operational matters within
16
the unit. Ensure that M&R records and evidence are up to date and ready for
audit. Conduct sample reviews of project reports and evidence.
ENQUIRES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
POST 30/10 : FINANCIAL ANALYST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G10/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed Term Contract
The purpose of this role is to analyse corporate financials and appraise
investment proposals from public, private and non-governmental organisations
as they relate to Jobs Fund applications and the Jobs Fund portfolio of
investments in activities that contribute directly to enhanced employment
creation in South Africa.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech degree (NQF Level 7) in
Finance or Project Finance, Economics or a related field. A postgraduate
qualification in Finance would be advantageous. Minimum 4 years post-
training/ internship experience. Experience in public sector would be
advantageous. Competencies Required: Client Service Orientation: The ability
to interact with and respond to internal and external client needs and
expectations in a manner that puts into practice the Batho Pele spirit and meets
and exceeds service delivery standards, with priority given to client satisfaction.
Concern for Quality and Order: The desire to see things done logically, clearly
and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and checking work and information,
insisting on the clarity of roles and duties, and setting up and maintaining
information systems. Effective Communication: The ability to transmit and
receive information clearly and communicate effectively with others by
considering their points of view to respond appropriately. This may involve
listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written,
and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and
information in a way that brings understanding to the target audience.
Emotional Intelligence: The capacity for recognising their own feelings and
those of others, for motivating oneself and others as a result of this awareness,
and for managing emotions within oneself and in others. Integrity/ Honesty:
Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high
standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these
standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Problem Solving
and Analysis: The ability to understand a situation, issue, problem, etc., by
breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a
step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc.,
systematically; making systematic comparisons of different features or
aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences,
causal relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources
Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Team
Participation: The ability to work cooperatively with others, to work together as
opposed to working separately or competitively. Valuing Diversity: The ability
to understand and respect the practices, customs, values and norms of other
individuals, groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required by
governmental employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect
and value different points of view and to be open to others of different
backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a
positive part of the work environment. It also means being able to work well
with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds, cultures and
socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high
personal and professional standards that support the organisation’s vision,
mandate and values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others
to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision. Computer Literacy:
Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to
the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and other
applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes
the ability to learn new applications associated with the business. Development
Financing: Knowledge of development financing approaches and methods,
17
including the financing of long-term projects and public services based upon a
non-recourse or limited recourse financial structure, in which project debt and
equity used to finance the project are paid back from the cash flow generated
by the project. Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic
development policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches
and methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Financial Analysis:
Knowledge of financial data analysis, including the ability to collect and monitor
data, conduct financial modelling, analyse results; monitor variances, identify
trends, recommend actions and assist with annual and quarterly forecasting.
This further includes knowledge of types of agreements/contracts typically
used in non/limited recourse finance. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of
the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental relationships, and
the economic and social development priorities and programmes of national,
provincial and local governments. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant
funding (non-repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory
environment governing the management of public funds. This includes
knowledge of the South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant
management systems. Internal Control/Audit: Knowledge of how to evaluate
control systems for financial, administrative, programme, and operational
activities to provide reasonable assurances that obligations, costs and
disbursements comply with applicable regulations and laws, that property is
funded, and assets are safeguarded; and that revenues and expenditures
applicable to operations are properly recorded and accounted. Labour
Markets: Knowledge of how labour markets work and the current active labour
market policy interventions. Legislative Knowledge: Knowledge of the
regulatory environment and processes regarding the implementation of
policies, legislation and service delivery programmes, and knowledge of the
PFMA and NT regulations pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management:
Knowledge of project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
Knowledge of the field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them.
DUTIES : Jobs Fund Regulatory Framework: Prepare and maintain mandated
documents as required. Review Jobs Fund policies for alignment with
accounting standards and provide explanations on processes and techniques
and recommend actions. Assist Jobs Fund staff in interpreting laws, rules, and
regulations, and clarifying procedures. Assist the Jobs Fund in the
management and interpretation of the Auditing regulations and procedures.
Jobs Fund Applications and Investment Opportunities Appraisals: Appraise
new investment proposals (due diligence) and opportunities submitted through
the Calls for Proposals. To conduct a financial appraisal of the application,
which includes analysing the proposed financial model. Utilise and Quality
Assure the Activity Based Costing Project Implementation Monitoring Plan
(ABC PIMP) to capture and review the Application proposals. Determine
optimal funding allocations including establishing standard costs across
models and collecting operational data on models. Conduct commercial
analysis, financial modelling and analysis, risk analysis and institutional
analysis. Prepare appraisal reports for submission. Review proposed contracts
for adherence to Jobs Fund policy, existing laws and regulations. Negotiate
project documents. Jobs Fund Portfolio Investment Analysis: Analyse
investment project reports and corporate financials. Examine accounting data
for accuracy, appropriateness and documentation. Compare and analyse
actual results with plans and forecasts to identify financial status and monitor
variances. Audit documents submitted for payment and verify compliance with
Jobs Fund guidelines. Identify, report and ensure resolution of non-compliance
issues and project risks. Prepare disbursement request reports for
consideration. Monitor and check approved disbursements to projects. Monitor
and report on project progress post-investment. Prepare and submit surplus
memos for implementation projects. Jobs Fund Performance and Reporting:
Coordinate with other members of the Jobs Fund Project Management Unit to
review financial information and forecasts. Analyse current and past financial
data and performance, identify trends in financial performance and provide
recommendations for improvement. Provide information and technical support
in the development and revision of policies and regulations. Assist with the
compilation of data, financial reports and interpretation of legislated financial
18
reporting requirements and regulations. Review and verify statistical and
financial information and prepare financial reports as requested. Analyse and
interpret data, conduct comparative analyses and recommend actions. Jobs
Fund Support: Liaise with implementing stakeholders and promote a culture of
adherence towards efficiency and achievement of value for money. Promote
knowledge management through research and publication of papers. Maintain
communication with staff regarding financial matters. Manage team dynamics
to meet the Fund’s objectives. Assist with the development and maintenance
of financial models and forecasting methodologies and tools.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
POST 30/11 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G11/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
The purpose of this role is to provide project management and administrative
support services to the team to enable efficient and smooth operations in the
Jobs Fund.
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), plus 37%
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Accounting,
Commerce, Business or Business Administration, Project Management,
Development Studies or related field. A project management or project
administration qualification would be advantageous. Minimum of 4 -6 years,
experience in a similar role covering the following aspects:
Professional/executive-minute taking, Company secretarial governance
aspects, Project management experience with strong emphasis on project
management support using relevant software i.e. MS Project etc.,
Administrative experience, including travel arrangements, document
preparation and management, support services within teams, Copy editing
experience, Use of AI tools to improve administrative processes and document
quality. Experience in the use of presentation software such as PowerPoint.
Competencies Required: Administrative Support: Knowledge, capabilities and
practices associated with the provision of office administration support. This
competency requires knowledge of the appropriate rules, regulations,
processes and associated systems within various enabling functions, which
may be diary scheduling, document filing and archiving, meetings
administration, typing and computer literacy skills (MS Office), office
administration, office resources and equipment administration, telephone
administration and travel administration. Computer Literacy: Knowledge and
ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level
someone has with using computer programs and other applications associated
with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Typing speed of 50 – 70 words per
minute with 98 – 100% accuracy. Information Management: The ability to
gather, prepare, house and share the organisationally relevant information
produced or found through work in a manner that creates easy access and
understanding, and that informs and educates the reader regarding the subject.
Resources Planning: The ability to organise work, set priorities and determine
resource requirements; determine short- or long-term goals and strategies to
achieve them; coordinate with other organisations or parts of the organisation
to accomplish goals; monitor progress and evaluate outcomes. Effective
Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view to respond
appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating and
delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It includes
the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings understanding
to the target audience. Emotional Intelligence: Capacity for recognising their
own feelings and those of others, for motivating themselves and others
because of this awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and
in others. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the
organisation; displays high standards of ethical conduct and understands the
impact of violating these standards on an organisation, self, and others; is
trustworthy. Systems Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with
regards to functions or divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting
opportunities to connect with initiatives underway in other areas or proactively
sharing information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and
impact for others. Team Participation: Works co-operatively with others,
19
working together as opposed to working separately or competitively. Valuing
Diversity: Ability to understand and respect the practices, customs, values and
norms of other individuals, groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required
by governmental employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect
and value different points-of-view, and to be open to others of different
backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a
positive part of the work environment. It also means being able to work well
with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds, cultures and
socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high
personal and professional standards that support the organisation's vision,
mandate and values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others
to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision.
DUTIES : Project Management Support: Assist in the project planning, execution and
monitoring of the programme, leading project planning sessions including:
Designing project plans using appropriate software (including MS Project).
Managing project progress and adapting work as required. Tracking project
deliverables to ensure projects meet deadlines. Conducting project review and
creating detailed reports for executive staff. Optimising and improving project
management processes and the overall approach where necessary.
Overseeing all incoming and outgoing project documentation. Designing risk
mitigation plans for effective project administration. Managing relationships
with clients and stakeholders. Coordinating staff and internal resources. Diary,
Meeting Administration and Telephonic Communications: Schedule and
administer appointments and meetings, including: Setting up and confirming
appointments and meetings and updating diaries. Preparing and distributing
meeting schedules. Organise meetings and make sure all arrangements are
made as follows: Booking meeting rooms, parking, presentation aids, and
catering and refreshments where required. Scheduling meetings on MS Teams
or via Zoom where applicable. Preparing, distributing and processing meeting
invitations, directions and agendas. Assisting with the compilation and
distribution of meeting packs (hardcopy and/or electronic). Arranging security
and transport for delegates from other governments and international
institutions, where applicable. Facilitating access to the office and receiving
and assisting external and internal visitors and staff. Provide secretariat
services to meetings including: Drafting and distribution of minutes. Following
up on decisions arising from the meeting. Filing and archiving meeting minutes,
notes, agenda, and documents. Professional/executive minute-taking at
various committees, including the Investment and Technical Evaluation
Committees. Facilitating the company secretarial and/or governance aspects
for the various committee structures. Ensuring compliance with relevant
governance requirements for various committee structures. Quality assurance
of meeting packs, both hard and soft copies. Facilitate and administer
telephonic communications as follows: Answering, screening of incoming
telephone calls and maintaining a record of outgoing calls where applicable.
Develop and maintain an office contact list/directory. Coordinate and submit
telephone accounts to the relevant parties monthly. Document Management,
Records Keeping, Reports production and Administration Support: Administer
and quality assure all electronic and hard copy documents such as
correspondence, memoranda, agreements, and reports including:
Acknowledging receipt of document, noting priority, and tracking required
response and/or handling. Following up on deadlines for documents for
submission. Maintaining an accurate log of all documents emanating from the
unit that require approval. Assist with the preparation and finalisation of
documents including: Taking and/or transcribing dictation and notes. Sourcing,
obtaining and/or downloading documents as requested (from the internet
and/or other sources). Formatting and typing of documents and compiling
presentations. Proof-reading and controlling the quality of the document.
Effecting the necessary changes as requested and finalising documents.
Recording the distribution, confidentiality and indexing requirements of
documents. Produce and distribute documents, including agendas required:
Printing/copying, packaging and faxing/delivering / couriering/posting of hard
copies. Creating email distribution lists and sending electronic copies. Manage
the physical and electronic document tracking and filing systems including:
Opening and creating files. Indexing, filing, and archiving documents. Updating
and maintaining integrity of RACI folders. Conducting electronic data, clean-
ups and back-ups. Handling documents with discretion and confidentiality.
Travel Arrangements and Claims Administration: Process travel requests,
20
including confirming budget, obtaining approvals and making travel, transport
and accommodation and security bookings as requested. Prepare travel packs,
including the meeting itinerary and details and travel documents, schedule and
details. Process and administer travel reports and travel claims and reconcile
and organise the requisition and reimbursement of subsistence and travel
claims. Office Administration: Record and process requests for stationery and
equipment, including: Obtaining equipment approval and submitting to the
relevant parties. Assessing stationery needs, distributing and reconciling
stationery monthly. Monitor, report and ensure equipment and furniture
maintenance, cleaning and repairs to the relevant parties. Client and Project
team’s Support: Provide general programme information and assist with the
resolution of client queries. Provide administrative and secretarial support to
project teams as required and assist with the coordination and administration
of project tasks. Compile and maintain project data. Provide procurement
support to project teams, including processing procurement requests,
supporting procurement processes and processing and submitting invoices
and claims for payment.
ENQUIRES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
POST 30/12 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE, AUDIT & VERIFICATION SUPPORT
JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G12/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
The purpose of this role is to lead and support the financial administration,
audit, and verification functions of the Jobs Fund (JF).
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), plus 37%
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech degree (NQF Level 7) in
Finance, Accounting, Auditing or related field. A minimum of 2-5 years’
experience in financial management or the administration of budgets,
accounting and/or financial auditing. Experience in the public service would be
advantageous. Competencies Required: Financial Management: Knowledge
and ability to apply financial management practices, processes, controls and
systems associated with budgeting and expenditure management, revenue
management, financial and chartered accounting, supply chain management,
asset management and financial risk and audit management. Computer
Literacy: Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently.
Refers to the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and
other applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email).
Internal Control/ Audit: Knowledge of how to evaluate control systems for
financial, administrative, programme, and operational activities to provide
reasonable assurances that obligations, costs and disbursements comply with
applicable regulations and laws, that property is funded, and assets are
safeguarded; and that revenues and expenditures applicable to operations are
properly recorded and accounted for. Project Management: Knowledge of
project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
Knowledge of the field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them. Client Service Orientation: Client-service
orientation implies helping or serving others to meet their needs. It means
focusing on discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet them, as
well as putting into practice the Batho Pele spirit. The term “clients” refers to
both internal and external clients. Effective Communication: Ability to transmit
and receive information clearly and communicate effectively to others by
considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may
involve listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal,
written, and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and
information in a way that brings understanding to the target audience. Integrity/
Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays
high standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these
standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change, and then checking back
21
to determine the effect of efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement), an objective measure (results
orientation) outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one has
set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Team Participation:
Works co-operatively with others, working together as opposed to working
separately or competitively. Resilience: Ability to cap one’s emotions to avoid
negative reactions when provoked, when faced with opposition or hostility, or
when working under stress. It also includes the ability to maintain stamina
under continuing stress.
DUTIES : This includes overseeing financial planning, budgeting, reporting, internal
controls, and compliance with relevant legislation and policies. The role
ensures accurate financial documentation, supports audits, and contributes to
continuous improvement in financial processes. Financial Administration and
Operations: Oversee the collection, verification, and processing of financial
documents and invoices. Ensure timely and accurate payments to service
providers and consultants. Maintain financial databases and spreadsheets.
Process travel claims and compile monthly reconciliations. Ensure the filing
and accessibility of financial records for audit purposes. Verification of project
financial records for accuracy and completeness. Budgeting and Planning:
Assist in the compilation of budget drawdown projections and annual budgets.
Support resource requirement assessments and financial projections. Prepare
and consolidate budget submissions for MTEF and ENE. Track project
progress against financial obligations. Financial Reporting: Compile monthly,
quarterly, and annual expenditure reports. Monitor and verify management
accounting information. Ensure budget managers provide variance
explanations. Prepare databases for reporting and audit purposes. Assist in
checking the accuracy and completeness of project budget submissions for
approval by the Deputy Director General. Assist in on-site financial evidence
verification work for projects as required. Audit and Verification: Assist in the
review of project audits and compilation of progress logs against outcomes of
the audits. Support the JF and JFP team as they prepare for the JF Project
audits. Verify financial records and ensure compliance with Fund protocols.
Assist in risk assessments and process improvement initiatives. Assist with the
compilation of all financial evidence in preparation for the Fund’s Audits. Assist
in supporting external auditors and their information requirements as part of
the Audit process. Procurement and Contract Management: Develop and
implement procurement plans. Assist in procurement processes and contract
management. Ensure compliance with GTAC procedures and guidelines.
Asset and Bank Reconciliation: Maintain fixed asset registers and conduct
asset verification. Prepare payroll and cost recovery journals. Perform monthly
bank reconciliations. Stakeholder Engagement: Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders on financial matters. Provide guidance on workflow
processes and compliance requirements. Support with service providers and
consultants.
ENQUIRES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
22
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(King Hintsa (TVET) College)
(Port Elizabeth TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/13 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: PS17/2025DHET
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12 / NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Applicants should be in possession of a recognised
National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Internal Auditing, Accounting, or an
equivalent qualification. A minimum of two (2) to three (3) years of relevant
experience in an internal audit or auditing environment is required, including
experience in the development and implementation of policies and strategies.
The ideal candidate must have a thorough knowledge of applicable prescripts,
legislation, and regulations, as well as a comprehensive understanding of the
internal audit environment. Candidates must demonstrate strong planning and
organising abilities, sound financial management skills, and proven experience
in report writing. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, along with
advanced problem-solving capabilities, analytical thinking, and computer
literacy, are essential. Additional competencies include project management,
team leadership, people management, and a client-oriented approach. Key
values and attributes required for this role include a commitment to service
excellence, integrity, loyalty, proactivity, and a high level of professionalism and
dedication to ethical conduct and continuous improvement.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for ensuring the overall
supervision, development, review, and monitoring of internal audit policies, as
well as developing and reviewing risk and fraud policies. Duties include
conducting awareness workshops to promote understanding and compliance.
The incumbent will oversee the planning, execution, and reporting of audits,
participate in the preparation of the draft three-year strategic risk-based internal
audit plan and the annual operational plan, and incorporate management
inputs when finalising audit activities. Key responsibilities include evaluating
internal controls, governance, and risk management processes, monitoring
progress on audit action plans, and collecting, analysing, and interpreting data
for informed decision-making. The candidate will be required to develop and
maintain an annual risk register, monitor identified risks on a quarterly basis,
conduct continuous risk assessments with stakeholder involvement, and
facilitate regular risk management training sessions. The role also involves
coordinating and arranging quarterly and special audit and risk committee
meetings, serving as secretariat, preparing all logistical arrangements,
implementing committee recommendations and ensuring proper filing of all
related documents. Furthermore, the incumbent will be responsible for
compiling and submitting monthly, quarterly, and annual reports to the council
subcommittee or audit and risk committee, reflecting progress against the audit
plan and the risk register. Additional duties include the supervision and effective
management of human, physical, and financial resources within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za, quoting
the reference number to the office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services:
Port Elizabeth TVET College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive;
Richmond Hill; Port Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to:
Private Bag X6040; Port Elizabeth 6000.
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Only
shortlisted candidates will be contacted to submit the required certified
documents. Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing
date will not be considered. A complete set of application documents should be
submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the
23
requested documents will result in your application not being considered.
Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation
certificate from South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the
day of the interview. The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any
time. Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and
successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to
personnel suitability checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification
verification). The suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their
financial interests and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. All applicants must consider
their applications to be unsuccessful if not contacted within 60 days after the
closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 10 September 2025
POST 30/14 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS) OFFICER REF NO:
PS18/2025DHET
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Applicants should be in possession of a recognised three
(3) year National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree in Information
Management, Data Management, or an equivalent qualification. A minimum of
two (2) to three (3) years of relevant working experience in data management,
the TVET MIS environment, or a related field is required. The ideal candidate
must have a sound knowledge of the policies and governance framework
applicable to TVET Colleges, including an understanding of the TVETMIS
system and the annual reporting requirements for Higher Education
Institutions. In-depth knowledge of information management principles, as well
as the application and interpretation of office management systems such as
COLTECH, data warehouse systems, and IT-related prescripts, is essential.
The candidate must demonstrate strong administrative, planning, and
organisational abilities, with proven experience in financial management,
report writing, and problem-solving. Excellent communication and
interpersonal skills, along with analytical thinking and computer literacy, are
required. Additional competencies include a client-oriented approach, project
management, team leadership, and the ability to effectively manage people
and processes within a dynamic and regulated environment. Key values and
attributes required for this role include a commitment to service excellence,
integrity, loyalty, proactivity, and a strong sense of responsibility and
professionalism.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the effective management of
the TVET Management Information System (MIS) across the college. Key
responsibilities include setting up the system for enrolment, ensuring timely
and accurate data capturing, performing regular validations, and maintaining
data quality standards. This role requires managing student data, extracting
statistical information for reporting purposes, and coordinating with system
service providers for upgrades and technical support. The incumbent will
oversee the accurate capture of approved enrolments and registrations within
specified deadlines. Additional duties include compiling and submitting weekly,
monthly, and quarterly reports on student statistics, skills programmes,
learnerships, examinations, and staffing to both management and the
Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). The candidate will also
maintain and manage the Coltech student system and related platforms,
ensuring alignment with DHET requirements through rigorous quality control
and validation processes. Oversight of academic system functions such as
timetabling, assessment marks, class groupings, census dates, and curriculum
records is required, along with the application of standard calculation criteria.
The role further involves monitoring the administration and timely renewal of
MIS licenses, ensuring the continuous efficiency of all student information
systems. Effective management of human, physical, and financial resources
within the unit is essential, including staff supervision, performance
management, and the completion of performance agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za, quoting
the reference number to the office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services:
Port Elizabeth TVET College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive;
24
Richmond Hill; Port Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to:
Private Bag X6040; Port Elizabeth 6000.
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Only
shortlisted candidates will be contacted to submit the required certified
documents. Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing
date will not be considered. A complete set of application documents should be
submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the
requested documents will result in your application not being considered.
Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation
certificate from South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the
day of the interview. The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any
time. Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and
successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to
personnel suitability checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification
verification). The suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their
financial interests and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. All applicants must consider
their applications to be unsuccessful if not contacted within 60 days after the
closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 10 September 2025
POST 30/15 : LAB ASSISTANT REF NO: KHC2025/LA WIL
(Permanent)
Re-advertisement, candidates previously applied are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College- Willowvale campus
REQUIREMENTS : NCV Level 4 Information Technology, or diploma in Information Technology will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 0 – 3 years’ experience. CompTIA N+,
CompTIA A+ and Microsoft Certified IT Professional will be an added
advantage, Knowledge in hands-on hardware troubleshooting. Knowledge in
equipment support. Unendorsed Valid Driver's Licence will be added
advantage. Working technical knowledge of the latest operating systems,
network protocols and standards. Thorough understanding of PC, network, and
hardware. Working knowledge of and experience configuring desktop
computers and Local Area Networks.
DUTIES : Set up workstations with computers and necessary peripheral devices (routers,
printers etc.), Check computer hardware (HDD, mouses, keyboards etc.) to
ensure functionality, Install and configure appropriate software and functions
according to specifications, Develop and maintain local networks in ways that
optimize performance, Provide orientation and guidance to users on how to
operate new software and computer equipment, Perform troubleshooting to
diagnose and resolve problems (repair or replace parts, debugging etc.),
Identify computer or network equipment shortages and place orders. Assists in
planning and presents learning experiences for K-5 students to explain
computer usage and help them become computer literate. Demonstrates and
assists students in developing skills in keyboarding, mouse control and the use
of various computer software applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
APPLICATIONS : Email: willowvalelab@khc.edu.za
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
25
need. incomplete applications and applications received after the closing date
will not be considered. Please forward your applications to the email address
provided next to each post that you are applying for. Kindly quote name of the
post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line. No faxed,
postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted. The Department and the
College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representativity: (race, gender
and disability) in the Department through the filling of posts and a candidate
whose appointment, transfer or promotion will promote representativity will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 @16:00
POST 30/16 : LAB ASSISTANT REF NO: KHC2025/LA DUT
(Permanent)
Re-advertisement, candidates previously applied are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Dutywa campus
REQUIREMENTS : NCV Level 4 Information Technology, or diploma in Information Technology will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 0 – 3 years’ experience. CompTIA N+,
CompTIA A+ and Microsoft Certified IT Professional will be an added
advantage, Knowledge in hands-on hardware troubleshooting. Knowledge in
equipment support. Unendorsed Valid Driver's Licence will be added
advantage. Working technical knowledge of the latest operating systems,
network protocols and standards. Thorough understanding of PC, network, and
hardware. Working knowledge of and experience configuring desktop
computers and Local Area Networks.
DUTIES : Set up workstations with computers and necessary peripheral devices (routers,
printers etc.), Check computer hardware (HDD, mouses, keyboards etc.) to
ensure functionality, Install and configure appropriate software and functions
according to specifications, Develop and maintain local networks in ways that
optimize performance, Provide orientation and guidance to users on how to
operate new software and computer equipment, Perform troubleshooting to
diagnose and resolve problems (repair or replace parts, debugging etc.),
Identify computer or network equipment shortages and place orders. Assists in
planning and presents learning experiences for K-5 students to explain
computer usage and help them become computer literate. Demonstrates and
assists students in developing skills in keyboarding, mouse control and the use
of various computer software applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
APPLICATIONS : Email: dutywalab@khc.edu.za
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
need. incomplete applications and applications received after the closing date
will not be considered. Please forward your applications to the email address
provided next to each post that you are applying for. Kindly quote name of the
post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line. No faxed,
postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted. The Department and the
College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representativity: (race, gender
and disability) in the Department through the filling of posts and a candidate
whose appointment, transfer or promotion will promote representativity will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 @16:00
26
POST 30/17 : LAB ASSISTANT REF NO: KHC2025/LA TEK
(Permanent)
Re-advertisement, candidates previously applied are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Teko campus
REQUIREMENTS : NCV Level 4 Information Technology or Engineering related qualification will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 0 – 3 years’ experience. CompTIA N+,
CompTIA A+ and Microsoft Certified IT Professional will be an added
advantage, Knowledge in hands-on hardware troubleshooting. Knowledge in
equipment support. Unendorsed Valid Driver's Licence will be added
advantage. Working technical knowledge of the latest operating systems,
network protocols and standards. Thorough understanding of PC, network, and
hardware. Working knowledge of and experience configuring desktop
computers and Local Area Networks.
DUTIES : Set up workstations with computers and necessary peripheral devices (routers,
printers etc.), Check computer hardware (HDD, mouses, keyboards etc.) to
ensure functionality, Install and configure appropriate software and functions
according to specifications, Develop and maintain local networks in ways that
optimize performance, Provide orientation and guidance to users on how to
operate new software and computer equipment, Perform troubleshooting to
diagnose and resolve problems (repair or replace parts, debugging etc.),
Identify computer or network equipment shortages and place orders. Assists in
planning and presents learning experiences for K-5 students to explain
computer usage and help them become computer literate. Demonstrates and
assists students in developing skills in keyboarding, mouse control and the use
of various computer software applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
APPLICATIONS : Email: tekolab@khc.edu.za
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
need. incomplete applications and applications received after the closing date
will not be considered. Please forward your applications to the email address
provided next to each post that you are applying for. Kindly quote name of the
post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line. No faxed,
postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted. The Department and the
College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representativity: (race, gender
and disability) in the Department through the filling of posts and a candidate
whose appointment, transfer or promotion will promote representativity will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 @16:00
POST 30/18 : ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP ASSISTANT REF NO: KHC2025/WA MSO
(Permanent)
Re-advertisement, candidates previously applied are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Msobomvu Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV/N3, Trade certificate (Electrician), Driver’s licence. At least 1
year of working experience in the electrical field.
DUTIES : Ensure that tools and spare parts are available and ready for use. Conduct
minor electrical maintenance in the workshop. Support Artisan/facilitators with
technical tasks when preparing for learner practical. Perform small scale
electrical installations. Test and repair various electrical equipment, ensuring
optimal functionality. Clean electrical equipment regularly to maintain safety
and efficiency. Identify and document defects and perform required tasks to
27
address them. Ensure that tools and spare parts are available and ready for
use. The workshop Assistant is responsible for maintaining high quality
instructional support, help maintain a safe workshop environment and ensure
the proper care of all equipment and its essentials. In addition, the workshop
Assistant will oversee the daily operations of the workshop. Work closely with
Electrical Engineering Senior Lecturer and lecturers. Assist the lecturers in the
preparation of class and workshop teaching aids. Assist students as directed
by the lecturers with the development of appropriate instructional materials.
Assist Senior Lecturer and lecturers in maintaining inventory. Provide a safe
environment for the students and monitor the workshop to ensure proper care
and security of all materials and equipment. Assist lecturers with the
supervision of students in the workshop. Ensure that all teaching materials and
equipment are available for class use. Under supervision of the Senior
Lecturer, assist with the special needs students. Participate in professional
development activities offered by the department and/or by the college. Work
a flexible schedule as determined by the Senior lecturer activities. Serve as a
tutor for students. Follow the proper procedures for requesting instructional
supplies, expendable supplies, and turn in timesheets on a timely basis. Assist
in purchasing of equipment and consumables. Support the recruitment
activities of the College by participating in career days and other activities to
promote the College's programs and curricula. Follow the academic calendar
and other policies and procedures adopted by the Academic Development
Committee. Provide information and/or data to the requesting officer so that
proper reports may be completed and filed with the proper educational agency,
funding agency, or accrediting agency. Perform other duties assigned by the
Senior Lecturer, Head of Department and Campus Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
APPLICATIONS : Email: msobomvulab@khc.edu.za
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
need. incomplete applications and applications received after the closing date
will not be considered. Please forward your applications to the email address
provided next to each post that you are applying for. Kindly quote name of the
post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line. No faxed,
postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted. The Department and the
College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representativity: (race, gender
and disability) in the Department through the filling of posts and a candidate
whose appointment, transfer or promotion will promote representativity will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 @16:00
POST 30/19 : KITCHEN WORKSHOP ASSISTANT REF NO: KHC2025/LA CEN
(Permanent)
Re-advertisement, candidates previously applied are encouraged to reapply).
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Centane Campus
REQUIREMENTS : NCV Level 4/Grade 12, or Diploma in Hospitality/Culinary/Cookery/Hotel and
Catering Management/Nutrition/Food Science/Food Service Management or
any relevant qualification in Hospitality. Must have at least 1 years of work
experience in the hospitality industry. Must have some computer knowledge.
Must have knowledge of culinary arts.
DUTIES : Must be able to assist in the development of appropriate recipes. Must have
effective communication skills. Must be able to show enthusiasm, take
initiative, have organizational skills and supervisory abilities. Must monitor and
ensure proper care and security of all Culinary Arts resource materials and
28
equipment. Must be able to work outside regular working hours. The Kitchen
Assistant is responsible for maintaining high quality instructional support, help
maintain a safe kitchen environment and ensure the proper care of all culinary
arts kitchen equipment and its essentials. In addition, the Kitchen Assistant will
oversee the daily operations of the Culinary Arts Kitchen Workshop. Work
closely with Hospitality Program Head and lecturers. Assist the Culinary Arts
lecturers in the preparation of class and laboratory teaching aids. Assist the
Culinary Arts students as directed by the lecturers with the development of
appropriate instructional materials. Assist Program head and lecturers in
maintaining food product inventory and the culinary arts garden. Provide a safe
environment for the students and monitor Culinary Arts Kitchen workshop to
ensure proper care and security of all materials and equipment. Assist the
Culinary Arts lecturers with the supervision of students in the Culinary Arts
kitchens. Ensure that all teaching materials and equipment are available for
practical use. Organize Culinary Arts Kitchen by taking inventory of materials,
groceries, supplies and equipment which are available for students and
lecturers. Under supervision of Program head, assist with the special needs of
students. Participate in professional development activities offered by the
department and/or by the college. Work a flexible schedule as determined by
Program head activities. Serve as a tutor for students enrolled in Hospitality
classes. Follow the proper procedures for requesting instructional supplies,
expendable supplies, and turn in timesheets on a timely basis. Assist in
purchasing food products for student kitchen activities and submit required
receipts and accounting documents promptly. Support the recruitment activities
of the College by participating in career days and other activities to promote
the College's programs and curricula. Follow the academic calendar and other
policies and procedures adopted by the Academic development committee.
Provide information and/or data to the requesting officer so that proper reports
may be completed and filed with the proper educational agency, funding
agency, or accrediting agency. Perform other duties assigned by the Program
head, Head of Division and Campus Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
APPLICATIONS : Email: centanelab@khc.edu.za
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
need. incomplete applications and applications received after the closing date
will not be considered. Please forward your applications to the email address
provided next to each post that you are applying for. Kindly quote name of the
post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line. No faxed,
postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted. The Department and the
College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representativity: (race, gender
and disability) in the Department through the filling of posts and a candidate
whose appointment, transfer or promotion will promote representativity will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 @16:00
29
ANNEXURE E
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. People with
Disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to
candidates whose appointment will assist the JICS in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms
of the JICS’s Employment Equity Plan.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview following the
communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-
RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994.JICS is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and
equity employment, preference will be giving to Whites, Indian Females,
African Males, Coloured Males, and people living with disabilities.
30
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/20 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: JI 148/2025
Northern Management Region
Re-advertisement and previous applicants are encouraged to reapply
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a grade 12 /senior certificate. Knowledge
in administration. Ability to communicate verbally and in writing. Ability to work
independently and also as part of a team. Ability to multi-task and general
administrative capabilities including record management. Computer literate
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook). A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for reception duties and office
administration. Proper maintenance and implementation of approved filing
system. Handling of incoming and outgoing mail and phone calls. Management
of resources. Provide general administrative support to the Regional Office
(draft correspondence, management of calendars for senior team members
and arrange trips etc.). Managing petty cash and petty cash register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
APPLICATIONS : Applicants to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/fKwjdaABZozvyG8aA or hand delivered to Block C 3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046 marked Attention:
Human Resources
POST 30/21 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK - AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: JI 149/2025
Northern Management Region
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to reapply
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENT : Applicants must be in possession of a grade 12 /senior certificate. Knowledge
in administration. Ability to communicate verbally and in writing. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Ability to multi-task and general
administrative capabilities including record management. Computer literate
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook). A valid driver’s license is a requirement.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to manage the support services
of the office. Assist with travel arrangements. Preparations for meetings. Typing
documents. Managing the assets at the Regional Office. Provide general
administrative support to the Regional Office. Ensure transport and logistic
support to the office. Reception duties when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
APPLICATIONS : Applicants to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/use1rpZjceg7YFWR6 or hand delivered to Block C 3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046 marked Attention:
Human Resources.
POST 30/22 : SECRETARY REF NO: JI 150/2025
Directorate: Legal Services
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to reapply
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge
of administration/secretariat duties. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Computer literate with an excellent understanding of windows. MS Word,
Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Ability to work under pressure and willingness
to work overtime.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to serve as the
secretary/administrators to Director: Legal Services. Answering and screening
of telephone calls. Liaise with the Director regarding all administrative
functions. Typing/compiling of memorandums and presentations. Execute
office and general administrative duties. Manage filing and electronic
documents tracking system. Maintain diary and manage appointments.
Acknowledge receipt of documents. Record and issue minutes. Make all travel
and accommodation arrangements. Ensure submission of travel claims for the
Director.
31
ENQUIRIES : Mr K van der Merwe Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : Applicants to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/Jq9dZgRBvfHiV7WK9 or hand delivered to Block C 3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046 marked Attention:
Human Resources.
POST 30/23 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER (REF. NO: JI 151/2025) (X2 POSTS)
Readvertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to reapply
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification. Experience in Office Administration. Computer Literate (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). Planning, organizing and negotiation skills. Ability
to work independently and as part of a team. Analytical and problem-solving
skills. Communication and listening skills. Time management skills. Conflict
management skills. Knowledge of PERSAL system will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the implementation of human
resource administration practices concerning service benefits (Leave,
Housing, Medical, Injury on duty, Terminations, Long Service recognition,
Overtime, Relocation, Pensions, Allowances etc.), and HR Provisioning
(Recruitment & Selection, Transfer, Verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary reports etc.). Address human
resource administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of
human resource management practices. Capturing of transactions on
PERSAL. Filing and updating of personnel files. Performance Management
and Human Resource Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : Applicants to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/PA8Fced6aA1sffYG9 or hand delivered to Block C 3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046 marked Attention:
Human Resources.
32
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: The number of posts of Family Advocate: (LP7-LP8) advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy Circular 28 dated 08 August 2025 with Ref No: REF
NO: 04/25/LMP) has increased to 2 posts. The number of posts of Senior
Assistant State Attorney: Polokwane and Thohoyandou advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 28 dated 08 August 2025 with Ref No:
06/25/LMP and 07/25/LMP has increased to 2 posts in Polokwane and 3 posts
in Thohoyandou which will be 5 posts in total.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/24 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
25/06/KZN
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Human Resource
Management/Public Management/Industrial and Organisational Psychology; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in Human Resource Management
environment of which at (Assistant Director) level; Knowledge of PERSAL,
Human Resource Management Directives/Policies, Employment Equity Act,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Performance Management Systems;
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks:
Financial Management and regulatory framework; guidelines, prescripts, the
Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations,
33
Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance Management Act,
Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and Competencies; Applied
Strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information Management; Continuous Improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others; Impact and influence;
Managing interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems; Planning and
Organising; Decision Making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate the attraction, recruitment selection and
appointment of the employees; Coordinate the implementation of employee
compensation, general condition of services, benefits and incentives;
Coordinate the provision of leave and PILIR matters; Coordinate the provision
of human capital termination services (exit of the Employee; Manage human,
finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000.
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 30/25 : COURT MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Worcester Ref No: 56/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Vryburg Magistrate Court Ref No: 25/VA27/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration /Management/Law/Legal studies
or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in court management environment of which 2 years should be as a
supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA);
Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Accounts; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Planning and
organizing; Problem solving; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human
resource, risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business
planning processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile an analyse court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer
service improvements strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000. For Attention: Ms P Paraffin. OR physical
address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 30/26 : SOCIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR (GRADE 1- 2) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 – R893 949 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate, Cape Town Ref No: 39/2025/FA/WC
Office of the Family Advocate, Worcester Ref No: 41/2025/FA/WC
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Work or equivalent qualification which allows for
professional registration with the SACSSP; Professional registration with the
34
SACSSP; A minimum of seven (7) years appropriate experience in Social Work
after registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP; Knowledge and
experience in Mediation; Court experience in leading Evidence; Knowledge
and application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain Divorce Matters
Act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence Act; Children’s Act (inclusive
Hague Convention on International Child Abduction).Skills and Competencies:
Supervisory skills; Facilitation skills; Communication (written and verbal) skills;
Computer literacy (MS Office); Mediation, interviewing, conflict resolution,
evaluation and report writing skills; Diversity and conflict management;
Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee child focus forensic assessment services;
Supervise risk related to children’s care environment and or contacts;
Supervise the provision of Expert witness evidence in Court of Law; Oversee
Implementation and monitoring operational performance of forensic social
work Services; Conduct Appropriate Disputes Resolutions, Compile and
register Parental Responsibilities and Rights (PRR) and Parenting Plans;
Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Adv S Pillay Tel No: (021) 426 1216
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town or visit: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For
Attention: Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of registration with
SACSSP and service certificates of appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. Candidates whose name appear
on Part B of the Child Register as mandated by Section 123(5) of the Children’s
Act, 2005 need not apply. Separate application must be made per centre and
quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 30/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
12/25/LMP
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Human Resource
Management/Public Management/Industrial and Organizational Psychology; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in Human Resource Management
environment at supervisory level. Knowledge of PERSAL, Human Resource
Management Directives/Policies, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Performance Management Systems; Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial
Management and regulatory framework; guidelines, prescripts, the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance Management Act,
Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and Competencies; Applied
Strategic thinking, applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information Management; Continuous Improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others; Impact and influence;
Managing interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems; Planning and
Organising; Decision Making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the attraction, recruitment, selection and
appointment of the employees; Facilitate and implement employee
compensation, general conditions of services, benefits and incentives;
Facilitate the provision of leave and PILIR matters; Facilitate the provision of
human capital termination services (exit of the Employees); Manage human,
finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Chauke Tel No: (015) 287 2080 or Ms MR Phalane Tel No: (015) 287
2036)
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
35
POST 30/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 25/10/KZN
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resource Management / Industrial and Organisational Psychology; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in human resource administration with an
emphasis on Conditions of Service at a supervisory level; Knowledge of
Human Resource Administration legislative frameworks, methodologies and
strategies in the Public Service; Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service statutory frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, Public Finance
Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and
competences: Computer literacy (MS Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel);
Applied strategic thinking; Budgeting and Financial Management; Good
Communication skills (written and verbal); Diversity management; Managing
interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing;
Decision making; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate the implementation of employment and
general service conditions; Co-ordinate the implementation of policies and
frameworks for Conditions of Service; Co-ordinate the implementation of
service benefits; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No (031) 372 3000.
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 30/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITORIAL SERVICES (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria:
Tshivenda Ref No: 25/98/SLA (X1 Post)
Sesotho Ref No: 25/99/SLA (X1 Post)
Isiswati Ref No: 25/100/SLA (X1 Post)
Isixhosa Ref No: 25/101/SLA (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Communication or Linguistics as
recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a translation
services work environment; Language requirements: Major in (Tshivenda,
Sesotho, Siswati, isiXhosa); Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
statutory framework, Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, Public Finance
Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions; Knowledge and
understanding of applicable legislation (such as Basic Condition of
Employment Act, Labour Relation Act) and Code of Conduct; Knowledge of
Departmental interpretation and application of policies, prescripts and
administration of an office. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking;
Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication
and information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning
and organizing; Decision making; Project management; Team leadership;
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee the translation function; Edit translated bills;
Manage terminology development; Manage human, finance and other
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
36
NOTE : Separate applications must be made quoting the relevant reference.
POST 30/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LANGUAGE SERVICES REF NO: 25/91/CA (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Language Practice, Language Planning; A minimum of 3 years administration
experience in Language practice/interpreting at functional level; Language
requirements: (Tshivenda, Xitsonga and South African sign
language).Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework:
governing the Public Service: Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, prescripts, the Public Service Act, the Public Service
Regulations, Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance Management Act;
Knowledge of procurement process, Language stakeholders and their roles,
interpretation of statutes; Knowledge of office administration. Skills and
Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and
financial management; Communication and information management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing
others; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organising; Decision making;
Project management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the development of the Departmental
language policies and strategies; Monitor performance on the implementation
of language policies; Coordinate awareness campaigns of the Language Policy
within the Department; Facilitate the coordination on international and non-
governmental forums on the use of official languages; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Kgafela Tel No: (012) 315 1042
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 30/31 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION (TRC) UNIT
VICTIM SUPPORT COORDINATION REF NO: 25/92/CD
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in LLB/Political Sciences/Social
Sciences as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years functional specialist
in a social cohesion or Human Rights redress environment; Understanding of
the Constitution of South Africa; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
and other governance promotion of Nation Unity and Reconciliation, and the
Reparations Regulations; Understanding of Human Rights development. Skills
and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting
and financial management; Communication and information management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing
others; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organising; Decision making;
Project management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the implementation of reparation
programmes and projects; Monitor the implementation of reparation
programmes and projects; Facilitate the development and implementation of
all TRC reparations and awareness programmes; Manage human, finance and
other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S J Kgafela Tel No: (012) 315 1042
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
37
POST 30/32 : SOCIAL WORKER (GR1- 4) (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 – R725 754 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate, Cape Town Ref No: 42/2025/FA/WC (X4 Posts)
Office of the Family Advocate, Worcester Ref No: 44/2025/FA/WC (X2 Posts)
Office of the Family Advocate, Mitchells Plain Ref No: 43/2025/FA/WC (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Social Workers or equivalent qualification, Appropriate
experience in Social Worker after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Registration with SA Council for Social Service Profession
(SACSSP), Knowledge and experience in Mediating, Court experience in
rendering expert evidence; Knowledge and application of Family Law, including
Mediation in certain Divorce Matters Act. Children’s Act, Maintenance Act and
Domestic Act (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction);
A valid driver’s license and willing to travel extensively within the province.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Communication (written and
verbal) skills; Mediation, Interviewing, conflict resolution, evaluation and Report
writing skills; Diversity and conflict management; Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct mediation and/or inquiries as part of a multi-
disciplinary team in custody, access, guardianship, child abduction and related
family law disputes; Evaluate information and compile forensic court reports
and recommendations to the best interest of the children in family law disputes;
Act as expert witness for the Family Advocate in Court; Network and conduct
awareness campaigns regarding the functions and role of the Office of the
Family Advocate; Conduct inquiries and interview parties and source
references in family law disputes at townships and rural areas.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Buttress Tel No: (021) 426 1216)
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention:
Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of registration with
SACSSP and service certificates of appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. Candidates whose name appear
on Part B of the Child Register as mandated by Section 123(5) of the Children’s
Act, 2005 need not apply. Separate application must be made per centre and
quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 30/33 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER REF NO: 25/16/KZN
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ NQF level 4 qualification as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3
years working experience in a Human Resource Management environment at
a clerical level; Knowledge of PERSAL System, Human Resource
Management Directives/Policies; Knowledge and understanding of Human
Resource Management environment and Performance Systems; Knowledge
and understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the
Public Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act and Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Computer literacy; Creative thinking;
Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship; Problem
solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and undertake the implementation and
maintenance of attraction, recruitment, selection, appointment and employees
administration; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance
of employee compensation, general conditions of services of benefits and
incentives; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance of
leave matters; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance
of human capital termination and services administration (exit of the
Employees); Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000
38
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 30/34 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum; The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate: Mitchells Plain Ref No: 48/2025/FA/WC (X1
Post)
Office of the Family Advocate: Worcester Ref No: 49/2025/FA/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Good communication
(written and verbal) skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning and
Organizing skill; Ability to work under pressure; Problem solving skills;
Customer service; Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical services within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town. or visit: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 30/35 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: TRANSLATION AND EDITORIAL SERVICES
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
Ref No: 25/95/SLA, Isindebele (X1 Post)
Ref No: 25/96/SLA, Isizulu (X1 Post)
Ref No: 25/97/SLA, Sepedi (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Communication or Linguistics; A minimum of 1 year experience in Language
services; Language requirements: Major in (Isindebele, Isizulu and Sepedi)
Knowledge and understanding of translation and interpreting; Language
requirements: Practitioner in (IsiNdebele, Isizulu, Sepedi). Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Creative thinking; Customer service
orientation; Problem solving; Self-management; Team membership;
Translation skills; Report writing skills; Planning and organizing skills;
Communication skills (verbal and written); Administrative skills; Terminology
development; Proofreading skills; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Translate Bills and other legal documents; Conduct
terminology development; Perform administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate applications must be made quoting the relevant reference
POST 30/36 : FAMILY LAW ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement)
39
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate, Cape Town Ref No: 46/2025/FA/WC (X1 Post)
Office of the Family Advocate: Mitchells Plain Ref No: 47/2025/FA/WC (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years qualification in a Legal field and/or equivalent legal
qualification; knowledge in the functions of the Office of the Family Advocate,
knowledge and application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain
Divorce Matters Act, Children’s act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence
Act, (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction). Skills
and Competences: Communication skills (written and verbal); Computer
literacy (MS Office); Mediation skills; Attention to detail; Conduct legal
research; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct screening interviews and parental
responsibilities and rights information sessions, Assist members of the public
with the completion of forms and queries, Assist the Family Advocate in
conducting customer satisfaction surveys and community outreach projects;
Support the Family Advocate with regards to matters on the court roll; Receive
and screen correspondence and draft responses on behalf of the Family
Advocate; Conduct mediations in disputes regarding Parental Responsibilities
and Rights.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Regional Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 08 Riebeeck Street, Norton Rose House, 5th
Floor, Cape Town or visit: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 30/37 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LANGUAGE POLICY (MR1 - MR5)
REF NO: 25/85/CA
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum. (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four year equivalent legal qualification; Knowledge of the
South African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, the Prescription Act, the State Attorney Act, the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Departmental of Justice and
Constitutional Development Financial Instructions and the State Liability Act.
Skills and Competencies: Legal research; Legal drafting; Developing others;
Planning and organizing skills; Communication skills; Integrity and resilience;
Computer literacy; Dispute resolution.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Implementation of National Policy Framework and
regulations on Language Policy; Conduct research on language policy, collate,
and analyse information and report on findings; Implement initiatives and
programmes on Language Policy; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 30/38 : ESTATE CONTROLLER, EC1-EC4 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court, Bisho Ref No: 94/25EC (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court, Mthatha Ref No: 95/25EC (X2 Posts)
Master of The High Court, Kimberley Ref No: 28/25/NC/MA-KIM (X2 Posts)
Master of The High Court: Thohoyandou Ref No: 26/25/LMP (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree or recognized four years’ legal qualification. Knowledge of
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance, Mental Health, Insolvency Act and
40
other related Act, Registration of trusts Act, Curatorship’s Act; knowledge of all
local and international Legislation that regulates protection of children, South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract. Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, the State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the
Treasury Regulations and the State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies:
Legal research and drafting; Case flow management; Estate duties; Trust;
Dispute resolution; Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Customer focus; Attention to detail; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer Deceased Estates, Insolvent Estates,
Curatorship; Trust and all aspects related to the administration thereof;
Determine and assess Estate duties in terms of the Estate Duties Act; Conduct
research and draft legal documents; Render administrative function of the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
Northern Cape: Mr Y. Ajimudin Tel No: (053) 802 1300
Limpopo: Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr MI Modiba Tel No: (015)
287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Northern Cape Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. or hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. Applicants who wish to post their application forms are
encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current postal service
challenges or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 30/39 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Ga-Rankuwa Ref No: 2025/70/GP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Vereeniging Ref No: 2025/71/GP (X1 Post)
Master of the North Gauteng High Court Pretoria Ref No: 2025/72/GP (X1 Post)
Office of the Family Advocate: Cape Town Ref No: 45/2025/FA/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Computer Literacy (MS Office);
Administrative and organization skill; Ability to work under pressure; Customer
service; Document management and filing; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms P Raadt Tel No: (011) 332 9000
Western Cape: Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 or Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town or visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
41
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
42
ANNEXURE G
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83 and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 27 dated 01 August 2025 with the closing date of 18
August 2025. We hereby request for an extension of the closing date for the
following posts:(1) Chief People Officer (Ref No: S002/2025); (2) Director:
Public Finance X3 (Higher Education & Training and Economic Services (Ref
No: S015/2025); (3) Deputy Director: Public Finance (Ref No: S018/2025); (4)
Deputy Director: SCM Governance, Monitoring and Compliance (Ref No:
S019/2025); (5) Assistant Director: SCM Risk and Performance (Ref No:
43
S020/2025); (6) Senior State Accountant: Personnel Remuneration (Ref No:
S016/2025) and (7) Administrative Officer: Office of the Director-General (Ref
No: S017/2025). The closing date has been extended to 29 August 2025 at
12:00 pm (Midday).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/40 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL BUDGET ANALYSIS REF NO: S028/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Division: Intergovernmental Relations Division (IGR)
Purpose: To monitor the provincial budget process implementation on sectoral
allocations in the areas of administrative, economic, social services and build
environment.
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Accounting or Public Finance or Public
Administration or Statistics or Development Finance, A minimum 5 years’
experience at middle or senior managerial level obtained within a financial
environment. Knowledge of the provincial budget allocation system and the
public financial management system. Knowledge and experience of the
broader public service finance framework. Experience of the public sector
budgeting principles. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Budget Preparation and Support: Ensure alignment of provincial budgets with
broad national priorities. Collect, evaluate and interpret data from the provinces
for the preparation of benchmark exercise. Facilitate and lead discussions
during the provincial benchmark meetings to assess the degree of alignment
and the credibility of budgets. Participate in annual provincial MTEC hearings
by providing guidance, advise, and recommend solutions to problem areas.
Monitor and assess provincial budgets preparation. Co-ordinate the
compilation of reports for provinces for various budget for a, Budget Council,
PCC, TCF etc. Evaluate strategic plans and all non-financial data pertaining to
provinces in support of the budget preparation processes. Represent the
National Treasury in provincial budget committees. Attended TCF and Budget
Council meetings as per the budget Process Schedule. Budget Implementation
and Monitoring: Ensure revenue matches expenditure in provinces. Monitor
monthly expenditure and revenue including conditional grants in provinces.
Compile monthly reports on the state of expenditure and revenue for provinces.
Facilitate and evaluate the monthly in-year monitoring, quarterly and half year
reports for provinces and advise on revenue and expenditure matters. Assist
with the preparation of the quarterly provincial S32 publication. Maintain
provincial budget database (financial and non-financial) for provinces for in-
year monitoring and reporting. Ensure on time delivery of inputs to and from
the provinces. Co-ordinate the compilation of reports for provinces for the
provincial visits. Undertake annual physical site visits in provinces as part of
monitoring responsibilities. Provide support to provinces by addressing queries
and providing guidance on budget related matters as they arise, In-year
monitoring, quarterly and half year reports for provinces. Intergovernmental
Co-ordination: Coordinate the collection of budget and financial data from the
provinces for the IGFR and draft a chapter for the review. Provide support in
drafting of National Treasury documents. Ensure the availability of data,
including IYM submissions, strategic plans, annual reports, annual financial
statements, budget statements, provincial allocations with the adjustment
estimates, aggregated financial statements, normative measures and any
other information required from provinces on a continuous basis. Assume
sectoral responsibilities which include participating in 4 x 4 and 10X10 forums.
Respond to problem situations or emergencies in provinces. Collaborate with
chief directorates, provincial policy and planning (IPP), provincial and local
government infrastructure (PLGI) and local government budget analysis
(LGBA) in support of the DDG: Intergovernmental Relations. Financial
Management and Budget Reform: Promote effective financial management
within the provinces. Attend, co-ordinate and make presentations to provincial
44
treasuries regarding reforms and PFMA implementation in provinces as per
National and provincial budget process. Provide support, guidance and monitor
implementation of the PFMA at provincial level. Contribute towards drafting of
provincial budget reform and new budget formats. Assist with the promotion of
effective financial management in provinces. Write guidelines for the
implementation of reforms and training at provincial level in line with the
national guideline. Participate and work closely with the Budget Office. OAG,
PF, ALM, OCPO etc on related matters. Intergovernmental Grants: Monitor the
implementation of intergovernmental grants system in provinces on a monthly
basis. Fulfil all the duties and responsibilities in term of the PFMA and the
annual DoRA with the monitoring of conditional grants.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/41 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL BUDGET ANALYSIS REF NO:
S029/2025
Division: Intergovernmental Relations Division (IGR)
Purpose: To Manage and advise on the monitoring of provincial budgets
implementation in the development and maintenance of financial databases.
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 774 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Data
Science or Computer Science or Mathematics or Statistics or Actuarial Science
or Accounting, A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at
an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in Data Analytics or Data
Mining or Programming or Business Intelligence or Software Development,
Knowledge and experience of data management systems, Knowledge and
experience in Programming Languages and databases (e.g. C#, Python, R,
SQL etc.).
DUTIES : Budget Preparation and Support: Evaluate Medium Term Expenditure
Framework budget submissions emanated from provinces and assess the
estimates of provincial revenue and expenditure (EPRE) documented and
aligned on the database. Evaluate data from provinces for annual benchmark
and interventions and provide updated data to provincial stakeholders.
Participate in discussions during the provincial MTEC hearings and produce a
report. Budget Implementation and Monitoring: Compile aggregate reports on
the status quo of provincial budgets and expenditure / revenue trends and
advice on spending, and revenue patterns, Assist in drafting presentations for
the Director-General, Minister of Finance. Technical Committee on Finance
(TCF), Budget Council, National Council of Provinces (NCOP), President’s
Coordinating Council (PCC) and Cabinet. Provide input during budget visits
and expenditure reviews and compile an extensive report on the outcomes.
Intergovernmental Co-ordination: Manage and coordinate data submissions in
alignment with the budget process schedule. Prepare draft reports and
presentations to Parliament, provincial legislatures and other stakeholders.
Financial Management and Budget Reform: Contribute to publications on draft
chapters for the Provincial Budget and Expenditure Review (PBER). Provide
technical support and guidance in the drafting of annual provincial budget
guidelines on budget reforms and budget formats. Maintain databases in
alignment with provincial budget reforms and budget formats. Coordinate
annual provincial budgets and prepare consolidated reports on trends in sector
budgets, expenditure and performance.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 30/42 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MFMA IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: S033/2025
Division: Office Of the Accountant-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with coordinating, support and monitor the implementation
of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA).
SALARY : R582 444 - R685 091 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Public
Finance or Management or Public Administration or Economics. A minimum 3
45
years' experience obtained in a financial management environment;
Knowledge of the operations of local and or provincial government; and
Knowledge of the MFMA and the broader local government framework.
DUTIES : MFMA Policy Support: Assist with the development of policies to give effect to
the implementation of the MFMA. Assist in providing feedback on identified
gaps in municipalities for implementation of the MFMA. Assist in coordinating
policy inputs with various stakeholders (national and provincial CoGTA’s,
national and provincial SALGA’s, provincial treasuries. Assist in providing
oversight on implementation of policies and procedures in the management of
financial and non-financial performance information. MFMA Implementation:
Assist with the implementation of the MFMA in municipalities and municipal
entities. Assist with research into best practices for Local Government Finance.
Provide input for the drafting of new regulations and amendments. Update and
maintain the MFMA calendar with amendments and regulations. Promote and
assess improvements in financial management in municipalities and municipal
entities. Prepare and gather subject material necessary for the drafting and
preparation of circulars relevant to financial management in Local Government.
Develop and update guidelines, questionnaires and systems with regards to
financial management in compliance with legislation. Analyse outcomes,
information, questionnaires and provide summarised information, trend
analysis, statistics and gaps identified. Facilitate and manage the
implementation of projects relating to the MFMA. Assist in the preparation of
responses and correspondence on enquiries from stakeholders on municipal
financial management and compliance. Monitoring and Reporting: Assist in the
development and management of monitoring and reporting systems and
templates. Utilise reporting databases and systems to assist with information
management. Monitor compliance with the MFMA and supporting regulations
by municipalities and municipal entities. Prepare MFMA compliance reports
and dashboards for dissemination to stakeholders and entities. Support and
Capacity Building: Assist in building capacity in financial management in
conjunction with other role players, assist with training in provincial treasuries
and municipalities. Assist in the development of material to enhance the
internal development and capacity building of MFMA training workshops,
attend capacity review visits pertaining to provincial treasuries and delegated
municipalities. Stakeholder Relations: Assist in the facilitation and coordination
of National MFMA Coordinators meetings. Provide inputs on agendas, attend,
present and actively participate at National and provincial MFMA Coordinators
Meetings. Provide feedback at meetings with non-delegated municipalities,
internal and external MFMA stakeholders regarding MFMA Implementation and
financial management. Coordinate internal and external activities required to
administer, guide, support, monitor and report on the MFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 30/43 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGETS ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
S034/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with the compilation and preparation of the Annual and
Interim Financial Statement; in managing the departmental budget, in the
processing and analysing of inputs from Divisions, and provide info to internal
stakeholders, and external like Auditor-General compliance with the Public
Finance Management Act, 1999 and the Treasury Regulations.
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6) Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Accounting or Cost
& Management Accounting or Financial Management or Internal Audit or
Business Management or Economics or Finance, A minimum 3 years’
experience obtained in budgets management, management accounting and
financial management operational, Knowledge of BAS or/and other relevant
government financial systems.
DUTIES : Annual Financial Statements: Assist with the compilation and preparation of
the quarterly interim and annual financial statements of the department.
Prepare various financial statements and reports for management and submit
them to the Auditor-General, Coordinate regulatory audit processes with
internal and external Auditors. Departmental Annual Budget: Monitor exception
reports and review the departmental budget on the basic accounting system
46
(BAS). Provide budget information in the required format. Review the shifting
funds within economic classifications and between programmes. Consolidate
Budgetary Inputs: Assist in coordinating and submission on an annual basis:
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), Adjustment Estimates (AE),
Estimates of National Expenditure (ENE), Drawings, Rollovers, Entertainment,
catering, and gifts. Develop. Implement Budgeting Systems: Monitor budget
implementation progress and identify variances against the budget. Prepare
reports on performances and variances analysis for programmes, Consolidate
reports and advice and caution on the risks of possible over / under-spending.
Compliance with Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations
and Modified Cash Standard: Co-ordinate, consolidate and compile
management reports. Perform budget cycle within the parameters of the
applicable legislation and project plans. Assist with strategic and operational
financial matters in compliance with the required regulations, Prepare financial
statements within the parameters of the applicable legislation, where
applicable. Assist with strategic and operational inputs into financial matters:
Assist with strategic and operational inputs into financial matters pertaining to
reports, notices and other information submitted to the Executing Authority,
National Treasury and Auditor-General, as stipulated by the PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
47
ANNEXURE H
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Gauteng/Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7,
Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor,
Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Free State/Bloemfontein: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
CLOSING DATE 05 September 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualifications of the application during the selection process. Applications
on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual
citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
48
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/44 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/210/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification.
A valid driver’s license. MR3 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2
years post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4 - LLB Degree or
equivalent plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal
profession. MR5 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in legal profession). Skills and Competencies:
experience and expertise in labour law and administration, Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written), Computer literacy, Numerical skills,
Attention to detail, Planning, organizing and decision-making skills, Customer
service orientated, Interpersonal skills, Conflict management, strong work
ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting of
deadlines, result driven, honesty/trustworthy and Observance of confidentiality.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management support process to the Judiciary.
Manage the issuing of all processes and Initiating Court proceedings (Court-
on-line/ Caseline) , Coordinate urgent applications (after hours) Facilitate the
signing of court orders and writs of executions and Judge’s directive (ensuring
that the information on the order/directions correspond with the endorsement
made by the Judge on the court file), Taxation of bills of costs and endorsing
settled bill of costs, Giving effect to instruction made by the Judge President,
the Deputy Judge President, Judges and the Court/office manager, Co-
ordination of Case Flow Management and support the Judiciary, Supporting
the Court regarding quasi-judicial function, Effectively and efficiently
correspond with public, private body and various other stakeholders, Supervise
and Management of the staff, Co-ordinate allocation of interpreting services in
court, Provide practical training to and assistance to the Registrar’s clerks,
Exercise control over the management and safe keeping of case records and
records rooms, Deal with files in terms of the relevant codes and legislations,
Manage submission of statistics to the reporting Registrar/ Statistician, Prepare
and present cases for Audits, Manage performance in terms of Annual
Performance Plan
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR related enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/210/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 30/45 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEASES AND DISPOSAL REF NO:
2025/212/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
49
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12, A valid driver’s license will be added an advantage. National Diploma
in Financial Management/ Financial Accounting, Cost or Management
Accounting or relevant qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as
recognized by SAQA will be an added advantage. A relevant working
experience will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of Public Service Policy Frameworks, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Asset Management, Regulations, Modified
Cash Standard, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Problem solving
skills, Time management skills, Organizing and planning skills, Interrelation
skills, Analytical skills, Presentation skills, Data and record management skills.
DUTIES : Maintain a complete and accurate asset register for leased assets. Facilitate
Disposal of unserviceable, redundant, obsolete and lost assets, Maintain lost
Assets Register, Reconcile the General Ledger (BAS) against Lease Register.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr P Mahumane Tel No: (010) 493 2646
HR related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/212/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 30/46 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/213/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810.per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Abet level 3) or equivalent qualification. Grade 12 and a qualification
in plumbing, electrical or carpentry will be an added advantage. General
maintenance experience will be an added advantage. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Knowledge on how to operate hand and power tools. Knowledge of building
infrastructure layouts. Computer literacy. Communication skills. to work as part
of a team. Reliability. Problem solving skills. Innovation. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Perform minor general building maintenance. Attend to minor plumbing,
electrical and general handyman duties. Conduct routine inspections of the
building on a weekly and monthly basis. Report unauthorized movement of
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Technical: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR related enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/213/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the employment
equity goals.
POST 30/47 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2025/214/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Division of the High Court: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Abet level 2). Relevant experience required. A driver’s license will
be an added advantage. Basic security course registered with PSIRA. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act
and other security related legislations. Knowledge of access control
procedures. Knowledge of control and movement of equipment and stores.
Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection of
Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security officers under these
documents. Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures. Batho Pele
Principles. Interpersonal skills. Client service skills. Listening skills. Problem
solving skills. Decision making skills. Good communication skills. Computer
skills. Facilitating skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Ensure that equipment, documents and
stores do not leave or enter the building or premises unauthorized. Operate
control room security equipment. Ensure safety in the building and premises.
Ensure all incidents are recorded in the occurrence books/registers.
ENQUIRIES : Technical /HR related enquiries: Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4585
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/214/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals
50
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses: For: Deputy Chief Director:
Financial Management and Administration- e-recruit.cdfma@dsd.gov.za, Chief
Director: Social Crime Prevention and Anti-Substance Abuse- e-
recruit.cdscpaa@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr S Boshielo.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
51
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/48 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: I1/A/2025
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management / Accounting
/ Business Administration as recognized by SAQA Plus 5 years’ experience at
senior management level. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act
and Regulation. Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management
Act and Treasury Regulations. Extensive knowledge of Logistics and Supply
Chain Management. Knowledge and understanding of Government Immovable
Asset Management Act. Knowledge of and understanding of government
macro-economic and social policies. Knowledge and understanding of
government supply chain management framework. Knowledge and
understanding of General Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP)/ General
Recognized Accounting Practices (GRAP). Knowledge and understanding of
the government financial accounting and administration processes and
systems. Sound knowledge of risk management, corporate governance and
internal controls. Knowledge of PERSAL, BAS and LOGIS systems.
Competencies needed: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and
project management. Financial management. Policy analysis and
development. Information and knowledge management. Communication.
Service delivery innovation. Problem solving. Change management. People
management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus.
Stakeholder management. Presentation and facilitation. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional
intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee and manage procurement of goods and services in line with supply
chain management policies and prescripts. Manage and coordinate
provisioning of financial management and administration services. Oversee,
manage, and report on the budget, human resources, and performance of the
chief directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ngcobo Tel No: (012) 312-7543/7332
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 30/49 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SOCIAL CRIME PREVENTION AND ANTI-SUBSTANCE
ABUSE REF NO: I1/B/2025
Branch: Welfare Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Science, Social Work or
Development Studies as recognized by SAQA Plus 5 years’ experience at
senior management level. Registration with the relevant professional body will
be a added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Act & Regulation.
Knowledge Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge and understanding of
Children’s Act. Knowledge and understanding of VEP and prevention of
gender-based violence legislation, policies, and programmes. Knowledge and
understanding of JCPS Cluster protocols. Knowledge of Child Justice Act.
Knowledge of Central Drug Master Plan. Knowledge and understanding of
Social Development Welfare Services related acts, frameworks, norms and
standards, policies, and guidelines. Knowledge of White Paper for Social
Development. Knowledge of Criminal Justice Act. Knowledge of Criminal Law
52
(Sexual offences and related matters). Knowledge and understanding of Social
Services Professions Act. Knowledge and understanding of the Prevention and
combating of trafficking in persons Act. Knowledge and understanding of the
Domestic Violence Act. Competencies needed: Strategic capability and
leadership. Programme and project management. Financial management.
Policy analysis and development. Information and Knowledge management.
Communication. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving. Change
management. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Stakeholder management. Computer Literacy. Planning and
coordination. Presentation and facilitation. Risk Management. Monitoring and
evaluation. Quality Management. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations.
Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team
and independently. Adaptability. Emotional Intelligence. Independent thinker.
Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee and manage the development, review and implementation of national
policies, strategies and programmes relating to the delivery of Anti -substance
abuse services and Social Crime Prevention services. Oversee, manage and
monitor the implementation of social development probation policies,
strategies, and programmes. Oversee the development, implementation as
well as monitoring and evaluation of national policies, legislation, programmes,
and services to protect people affected by violence and crime including gender-
based violence. Oversee the provision of technical and programme support
services to the JCPS cluster forum and VEP sectoral programmes. Oversee,
manage and report on the budget, human resources and performance of the
chief directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Magangoe Tel No: (012) 312-7786/7675
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
53
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using one of the following methods: Email to
recruitment2024@dsac.gov.za, quoting the reference number and title of the
position on the subject line. There will be no follow-up emails to this address.
Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central. Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applications received after the closing
date will not be considered or accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025, 16:00
NOTE : Each application must be submitted separately. Applications must consist of: A
recently updated, comprehensive CV, a fully completed, initialled and signed
new Z83 form (Sections A, B, C&D are compulsory and must be completed in
full, and sections E, F and G are not compulsory if the information is contained
in the CV). However, the question related to conditions that prevent
reappointment under Part F must be answered. Use of the old Z83 Form or not
completing compulsory sections of the application form will result in a
disqualification. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified
copies of ID, Driver’s licence (where required) and qualifications on or before
the interview. Should you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA); Applicants must be South African citizens.
Shortlisted candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel
interview at a date and time determined by DSAC. The applicant should make
own arrangement for access to internet connectivity and equipment for this
purpose. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks and references will
be conducted once they are shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a
positive outcome on these checks, including security clearance, security
vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, previous employment verification and criminal record. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. We
encourage all applicants to declare any criminal and/or negative credit records.
All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate will be required
to enter into an employment contract and sign an annual performance
agreement. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity
targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of these posts. Should the Department not be able
to recruit candidates from disadvantaged groups, other groups will be
considered for appointment. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this
advert by notice on its communication channels. Prior to appointment for SMS
post, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-
entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by the DPSA,
which is an online course endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced from the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We
thank all applicants for their interest.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/50 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: DSAC-12/08/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, consisting of a
basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
54
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or Senior
Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification,
an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in LLB or relevant legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Successful completion of the Pre-entry
Certificate for the Senior Management Service (SMS) as endorsed by the
National School of Government. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate of the
High Court of South Africa. A minimum of 5 years’ legal experience at a
Middle/Senior Management level (Deputy Director level or higher or and MR6)
within the public sector or a public law environment. A valid driver’s license.
Extensive knowledge of the Constitution, Public Service legal frameworks
(PFMA, PSA, PAJA, PAIA, POPIA), and relevant public sector regulations.
Proven expertise in constitutional, administrative, and contract law, legislative
law processes, litigation, legal drafting and vetting. Strategic capability and
leadership, people management, programme and project management,
financial management, service delivery innovation, and legal research skills.
Excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal and analytical skills.
Ability to manage legal risk and provide sound legal advice.
DUTIES : Providing legal advice, interpreting statutes, drafting legal opinions and
ensuring legal compliance. Managing litigation for and against the department
and liaising with the Office of the State Attorney and other legal authorities.
Drafting, vetting, and managing legal contracts and agreements, ensuring
compliance with procurement legislation. Overseeing legislative drafting and
regulatory compliance aligned with constitutional and administrative law.
Managing the Legal Services Directorate, including staff performance,
resource allocation, and budgeting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Tsanyane Tel No: (012) 441 3492
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/51 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: POLICY AND RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT
(CULTURAL) REF NO: DSAC-13/08/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A Minimum four-year Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA or relevant qualification in Social Sciences/ Humanities/ Cultural
Studies/Public Policy/Developmental studies or relevant Research and Policy
Development qualification. 3-5 years relevant experience at least 3 years at an
Assistant Director level in Research and Policy Development within the cultural
and creative industry; Knowledge of relevant policies and research methods;
Understanding of the arts, culture, and heritage sector; Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations and the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA);
Knowledge and understanding of South African cultural policy framework and
legislative environment; Strong analytical and critical thinking skills; Good
communication and interpersonal relations; Research skills, including data
collection, analysis, and interpretation; Policy analysis skills, including
identifying problems, developing solutions, and evaluating outcomes; Strong
project management skills; Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Planning and research development; Facilitate steering Committee Meetings
for planning of research work, namely: identification and prioritization of
research project; Facilitate policy consultations with relevant stakeholders,
including government entities, artists, cultural institutions, and civil society;
Represent the department at forums, workshops, and conferences related to
culture and arts policy and research; Manage and Conduct Research projects;
Commission and manage research projects in collaboration with internal and
external stakeholders; Analyze trends, data, and reports to support evidence-
based policy development; Develop, review and analyse Policies; Ensure
alignment of cultural policies with national development plans and international
conventions; Ensure policy alignment with the White Paper on Arts, Culture
and Heritage, NDP 2030, and other national frameworks; Facilitate
intergovernmental and sector-wide consultation processes on draft policy
documents; Monitor and evaluate the implementation of cultural policies and
their impact; Develop, manage operational and project budgets; Facilitate risk
management register in the chief directorate by identifying project risks and
55
development of risk action plans; Ensure compliance with risk action plan
reports of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Chikeka Tel No: (012) 441 3668
POST 30/52 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (GRADE 3) (MR-3) REF NO: DSAC-
01/07/2025
SALARY : R324 579 – R371 121 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; LLB (or as otherwise determined by the Minister of Justice and
Constitutional Development); At least 2 years’ appropriate post qualification in
a legal environment. Knowledge of the South African legal system, Knowledge
of Public Service Legislation. Knowledge and understanding of Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge of Environmental Law, Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA). Knowledge of the rules of various courts,
including high and magistrate's courts. Knowledge and experience in judicial
review applications. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Services. Knowledge of administrative processes,
procedures, and relevant legislation. Knowledge of the Department role and
government imperatives, legally sound opinions and advice. Communication
and Interpersonal Skills, Presentation Skills, Negotiation and Problem-solving
Skills, Research Methodology and Analytical Skill. Drafting and Report writing
Skills, Client orientation and customer focus, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Assist in drafting and vet contracts and legal documents in the department.
Prepare affidavits and other legal paperwork as required. Ensure proper
management and compliance with legal documents within the Ministry and
Department. Review Contracts upon receiving all required documentation from
the relevant officials. Ensure adherence to constitutional and legal frameworks.
Assist in managing litigation cases in the department. Provide administrative
support in legal proceedings. Receive pleadings. Seek instruction from the
Department to oppose or defend a matter. Ensuring adherence to best
practices and legal compliance. Monitor case progress and maintain litigation
records. Refer new requests to Deputy Information Officers (DIO ’s). Advice
DIO ’s on individual requests and internal appeals. Compile and submit annual
PAIAs requests done to my senior to submit for Section 32 report to the
Information Regulator. Attending to general legal requests. Conduct legal
research on applicable legislation, case law and draft the legal opinion. Obtain
an initial or second legal opinion from the State Attorney or private law firm, if
required. Consult with the State Attorney or private attorney, counsel, and the
official from the relevant line function, if necessary. Read and comment on the
legal opinion received from the office of the State / private attorney, where
applicable. Transmit the legal opinion received from the State Attorney or
private attorney to line function. Participate in legislative processes. Provide
guidance for policy amendments. Receive instructions from internal clients for
legislative drafting. Conduct research Inclusive of policy documents created by
other organizations on the same topic. Generate draft bills. Provide Feedback
to clients and consults for further inputs and approval. On receipt of approval
from Clients, consult both the OCSLA and DPME for SEIAS for Pre-Certificates
(both consultations taking place concurrently). Receive a Pre-certification
opinion, from OCSLA after working on the technical, formatting and tagging of
Bill. On receipt of the Pre-Certificates, attend to the opinion and respond back.
On receipt of both pre certificates, sought in principle from the Minister to
Gazette for Public Comments (Three weeks for Minister's approval and SCM
to get a quotation from Government Printing works). Publishing the Draft Bills
for public comments. On receipt of public comments, to consider and
consolidate the comments. Receive a second opinion from OCSLA and SEIAS
from DPME should be sought. Prepare the submission to TWG and submit
presentation to TWG for approval and recommendation to first meeting of the
DDG (dates are pre-set) DDG's Cluster on receipt of the recommendations,
Draft Cabinet memo for submission to the Minister to introduce to the Cabinet
Committee Await recommendations from cabinet Committee, after written
another submission to the Minster to introduce the Bill to Parliament (NA and
NCOP) inclusive of letters. Generate presentations for the Portfolio Committee
and Select Groups at their request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Mokubedi Tel No: (012) 441 3359
56
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of this position. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities and
youth will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor Pencardia 1 Building or
DTARecruit202509@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date.
Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation only
when shortlisted. Incomplete applications or applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. It is important to note that it is the
applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Due to the large
number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill the advertised
position.
OTHER POST
POST 30/53 : ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT REF NO: 2025/09 (X1 POST)
Contract post linked to term of Office of the Commission on Khoi-San Matters
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification plus a certificate in Office
Management/Secretarial Studies. Fluent in Afrikaans. Core competencies:
Client orientation and customer focus. Communication (written & verbal).
Honesty and integrity. Planning and organizing. Telephone etiquette. Computer
literacy. Technical Competencies: Office management and administration,
secretarial functions and general administration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop and
manage an efficient filing system and flow of documents for the Commission:
Receive and distribute documents to members of the Commission on Khoi-San
matters. Record documents in the appropriate registers. File and manage the
paperwork of the Commission. Establish effective document tracking systems.
Provide secretarial support services to the Commission: Co-ordinate and
prepare documentation for the Commission’s meetings/ workshops/public
hearing and outreaches. Compile agenda, attendance registers, minutes and
reports. Draft memoranda and any other correspondence as directed by the
Secretariat or Commission. Manage the diaries of the Commission, Promote
effective diary co-ordination. Provide administrative support services: Arrange
logistics and related activities for travel, meetings, workshops, public hearing
and conferences. Manage the telephone and communication systems in the
office. Purchase and order stationery and equipment. Manage inventory and
equipment within the office. Make copies, fax and email documents as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. K Maphalle Tel No: (012) 336 5824
57
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Department of Transport is an equal opportunity employer and these posts will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post. All
shortlisted candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics will be
communicated to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended
candidates will also be required to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment after the interviews also take a note that National School of
Governance (NGS) has introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with
effect from 01 April 2020 as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior
Management Services (submitted prior to appointment) and can be accessed
through the following link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate must disclose to the Director-
General particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance
agreement and employment contract with the Director-General within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be
expected to be available for selection interviews and assessments at a time,
date and place as determined by the Department. An offer letter will only be
issued to the successful candidate once the following has been verified
educational qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks
and security vetting. Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into
with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/54 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT OFFICER: OFFICE OF THE
MINISTER REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/16
Branch: Office Of the Minister
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (All-inclusive salary package) of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6, 3 years’
experience below middle management (Assistant Director)/ middle
management level, knowledge of minister’s operations, proven management
competencies, broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas
covered by the executive authority’s portfolio, working knowledge of the
political and parliamentary processes in South Africa, computer literacy,
communication skills (verbal and written) Note: The following will serve as
recommendations: Excellent communication skills, high level ability to analyse
and synthesise information and to formulate policy and strategy, analytical
abilities, excellent liaison skills, sound knowledge of government protocol and
processes, sound knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
58
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Monitor events in Parliament/ the legislature to
identify matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the minister, peruse
documents like Hansard speeches, minutes of portfolio and standing
committees, and monitor meetings of legislative structures to identify matters
that have a bearing on the portfolio of the minister, liaise with structures like
portfolio and standing committees on matters that have a bearing on the
portfolio of the minister and brief departments on decisions making, monitor
events in Cabinet/Executive Council to identify matters that have a bearing on
the portfolio of the minister, peruse documents like minutes of Cabinet and
cluster committees and monitor meetings of the executive structures to identify
matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister, liaise with
structures, by attending meetings, like cluster and cabinet committees, render
an efficient and effective parliamentary service, facilitate timeous and
appropriate responses to parliamentary questions in the format prescribed by
Parliament/ the legislature and ensure departmental representation in
parliamentary events, compile Cabinet memoranda, speeches, submissions,
briefing notes and other documents as required, gazette and table draft bills
emanating from the portfolio of the Minister, provide advice and support in
terms of policy and procedure to the department in respect of key parliamentary
events, like the tabling of the budget vote of the Minister, co-ordinate and
control movements between the Pretoria and Cape Town offices for
Parliamentary sessions ( where applicable), manage and oversee the packing,
dispatching and unpacking of official documents and equipment in Pretoria and
Cape Town, manage the movement of households to and from Cape Town,
study the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/ policies and
other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly,
remain up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts/ policies and
procedures that apply to his/her work terrain, remain abreast with the
procedures and processes applicable to the Minister.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Shaik Tel No: 012 309 3033
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e. “Parliamentary and Cabinet Support officer:
Office of the Minister”
POST 30/55 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION OFFICER REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2025/17
Branch: Office Of the Ministry
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (All-inclusive salary package) of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6, 3-year
experience below middle management (Assistant Director)/ middle
management level, broad knowledge and understanding of the functional
areas covered by the executive authority’s portfolio, proven management
competencies, working knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes
in South Africa, computer literacy. note: The following will serve as
recommendations: Excellent communication skills, knowledge and
understanding of internal Audit Management concepts, frameworks and
methodologies, knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Regulatory Framework on Internal
Auditing, knowledge of the Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and
measures, knowledge of the National Treasury Risk Management Framework,
knowledge and understanding of Risk Maturity Model, knowledge and
understanding of Risk management policies, procedures, principles and
practice, compilation of management reports
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Manage the administrative and coordination
activities within the office of the executive authority, Develop, implement and
maintain systems, registers and databases to monitor and manage the flow of
documents to, from and within the office of the executive authority, compile
correspondence, submissions and cabinet memoranda as required, study, edit
and comment on submissions to be submitted to the executive authority for
consideration, manage the procurement and maintenance of equipment and
administer the budget in the office of the executive authority, manage logistical
support in the office of the executive authority, develop, implement and
maintain a filling system for the office of the executive authority, manage the
registry of the office of the executive authority, ensure that documents are
59
classified in accordance with the MIS prescripts and are handled in accordance
with their classification, liaise with internal and external roleplayers with regard
to matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority, brief the chief of
staff on matters with regard to the executive authority’s portfolio on the agenda
of Cabinet/executive council, liaise with senior managers in the institutions
within the executive authority’s portfolio, co-ordinate the activities of the
executive authority’s office, render a Cabinet/ executive council support service
to the executive authority, manage the distribution of memoranda to
Cabinet/executive council members, manage the distribution of documents
and submissions to the relevant legislature and standing/portfolio committees,
keep record of decisions of Cabinet/executive council and alert the Chief of
Staff and executive authority of actions to be taken and due date, supervise
employees, general supervision of the employees in the office of the executive
authority, quality control of the work delivered by supervisees, quality control of
the work delivered by supervisees, advise supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work, serve as the formal disciplinary authority with regard to
supervisees, ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : MR F Shaik Tel No: 012 309 3033
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Administrative support and coordination
officer: Office of the Ministry”
60
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/56 : DIRECTOR: WATER SERVICES INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND
REFURBISHMENT PROGRAMMES REF NO: 050925/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: Northwest
CD: Provincial Operations: Northwest
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 07 Degree in Civil Engineering or Project Management in
Engineering Environment. Five (5) years of experience at a middle / senior
managerial level. Five (5) years Programme and Project management
experience within the Water Sector built environment. Understanding of
stakeholder, programme and project management. Working knowledge on
drafting of agreements. Working knowledge of governance practices and
PFMA. Decision making, strategic capability and leadership. Understanding of
financial, change and knowledge management. Understanding of e-
collaboration and networking with sound written and verbal communication
skills. Service delivery and innovation (SDI). Problem solving and analysis.
People management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer
focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Develop policies on water services infrastructure programmes for the
component, in conjunction with provincial COGTA and municipalities, to ensure
that grant-funded projects are optimally prioritised on an ongoing basis.
Facilitate and support implementation of water services infrastructure grant
programmes for provincial operations. Support development of provincial
sector plans and their alignment to water services infrastructure grant
programmes. Promote partnerships between government, public entities,
private sector and civil society regarding water services infrastructure grant
programmes. Assure that water services infrastructure grant programmes are
61
budgeted for in medium term expenditure framework. Ensure that monitoring
and evaluation for water services infrastructure grant programmes are properly
conducted properly in provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mditshane Tel No: (018) 387 9502
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Females are encouraged to apply
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/57 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO:
050925/02 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office Dir: Strategic Infrastructure
Asset Management
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Electrical/Electronic Engineering or relevant
qualification. Three (3) years post qualification technical Engineering
experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Ability to work with electrical design tools such as
Relux/Dialux, Autocad Electrical and ETAP/DigSilent Powerfactory will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of programme and project management.
Understanding technical design and analysis. Knowledge of research and
development. Knowledge of computer-added engineering applications.
Technical report writing, networking and professional judgement. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making, team leadership, creativity, and self-
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Good communication
skills both (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in the field, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standards drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce technical designs with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the relevant authority.
Develop and draft maintenance strategies in line with the Asset Management
Plan (AMP). Develop and update the Maintenance Demand plan and
Operational plan. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required.
Compile and submit technical reports as required. Develop, implement and
maintain databases. Supervise and control technical and related personnel
and assets. Project lead and manage Maintenance Opex and Capex projects
in line with best project Management practices. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mahlane Tel No: (012) 336 6921
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 30/58 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 050925/03 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: KZN
CD: Provincial Operations: KZN
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 11 (NQF 3) certificate. Basic security Officer’s course and training. A
valid Grade C PSIRA certificate. Valid firearm competency certificate (Added
Advantage). Knowledge of security code of conduct. Applicant must have a
good knowledge of access control procedures, measures for the movement of
equipment and stores, knowledge of relevant emergency procedures and
relevant legislation. Must possess the following skills: report writing skills,
investigation, riot control, effective communication, searching and evacuation
as well as first aid and fire prevention competencies certificate. Participate in
all OHS related matters. Must be willing to work shifts including weekends and
public holidays. Must be clear of any or pending criminal records.
DUTIES : Perform security services through protection, safeguarding and access control
with regard to Departmental premises and their contents. Ensure safety in the
building and the premises through applying emergency procedures and alert
62
emergency services and departmental management according to the
prescribed security procedures, rules and regulations. Perform perimeter
patrols. Ensure the prohibition of unauthorized removal of equipment,
documents and stores from building or premises. Ensure that all incidents are
recorded in the occurrence books/registers and reported to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Sishi at 071 886 9442
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ or post your application quoting the reference
number to the: Provincial Head: KwaZulu-Natal, Department of Water and
Sanitation, Private Bag X54304, Durban, 4000 or hand deliver to 303 Dr Pixley
KaSeme Street, Delta Towers, 26th floor, Durban.
63
ANNEXURE N
PROVINICIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be hand delivered the addresses listed below or sent via
email:
Livingstone Tertiary Hospital: Hand deliver to Nurses Home, 2nd Floor,
Standford Road, and Korsten Port Elizabeth. Enquiries: Ms L Mabanga Tel No:
(041) 405 2348 or email Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
Frere Tertiary Hospital: Hand delivery to: Human Resource Office, Frere
Hospital, Amalinda Main Road, East London, 5200 Enquiries: Ms N Mthitshana
Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care: Hand deliver to: HR Office,
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care, No 2 Spondo Street, Zwide, Port
Elizabeth, 6002. Enquiries: Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to
Khayalethu.Plaatjie.echealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form, a comprehensive CV,
indicating three reference persons: Name and Contact Numbers, A relationship
with reference. Applicants are only required to submit a Z83 form and a
comprehensive CV. Communication from the HR of the department regarding
the requirements for certified documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to
submit certified documents (copies of Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric
certificate, Identity document, Proof of registration, proof of citizenship if not
RSA citizen) on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Applicants must note that further Personnel Suitability checks will be
conducted on short-listed candidates and that their appointment is subject to
the outcome of these checks which include security clearance, security vetting,
qualification verification and criminal record checks. Reference checks will be
done on nominated candidate(s). Note that correspondence will only be
conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been contacted by
the Department of Health within three (3) months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We
thank all applicants for their interest. People with disabilities are encouraged to
apply for these posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/59 : ASSISTANT MANAGER PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ ASDPHARM/LVH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2025
SALARY : R1 093 611 - R1 265 916 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC)
that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration as a Pharmacist with SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job:
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Leadership and management experience.
Training and experience in Medicine Management. Strong leadership skills
with regard to management, organisation and strategic planning. Project
management skills and Computer Literacy. Knowledge of the Acts pertaining
to the practice of pharmacy and national and provincial health policies. Ability
to cope under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure efficient drug supply management. Ensure overall quality management
of all pharmaceutical services. Assist in the development of SOP’s, policies and
health systems. Innovative in the improvement of pharmaceutical care
services. Plan and organize own work of subordinates to allow smooth flow of
pharmaceutical services. Manage the pharmaceutical budget and monitor
expenditure. Provide expert advice on selection and procurement of
pharmaceutical and surgical supplies. Assist with the training, education and
development of Pharmacy staff and other health workers. Promoting public
health, report to the Deputy Manager Pharmaceutical and Clinical Managers in
respect of general issues of Pharmacy. Assist in the implementation of
64
Provincial Comprehensive HIV/AIDS care and CCMDD. Coordinate
Implementation of electronic pharmaceutical management system RX solution
and Stock visibility systems. Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
POST 30/60 : CLINICAL PHARMACIST GRADE 1-2 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CLIPHARM/LVH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 093 611 - R1 159 692 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 193 706 – R1 265 916 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQURIEMENTS : Master’s Degree accredited with the SAPC that allows registration with the
SAPC as a Clinical Pharmacist. Registration with the SAPC as a Clinical
Pharmacist. Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC together with
registration as a Clinical Pharmacist with SAPC. Grade 2: Experience: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist
with the SAPC, together with the registration as a Clinical Pharmacist with
SAPC. Key Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of treatment guidelines.
Understanding of disease pathology and pharmacotherapy, Report writing and
data analysis, Clinical decision-making, Critical appraisal of clinical literature,
Communication and collaboration.
DUTIES : Conduct ward rounds with multidisciplinary teams. Review patient medication
charts and provide pharmaceutical care plans. Promote cost-effective and
rational use of medicines. Monitor medicine therapy, including adverse drug
reactions and interactions. Conduct medicine-use evaluations and report on
findings. Provide training and mentoring to pharmacy staff, interns, and other
healthcare professionals. Develop and implement standard treatment
guidelines and clinical protocols. Participate in Pharmacy & Therapeutics
Committee (PTC) activities. Support antimicrobial stewardship programs.
Collaborate in formulary management and pharmacoeconomic evaluations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
POST 30/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RADIOGRAPHY GRADE 1-2 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADRAD/FTH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R638 856 – R707 625 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R727 350 – R807 243 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer (Independent Practice.
Experience: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Diagnostic
Radiographer after registration with the HPCSA of which 3 years must be
appropriate experience in Management. Knowledge of relevant quality
assurance and control procedures for radiation safety for a Radiography
department in accordance with radiation control requirements. Good
understanding of clinical governance and clinical auditing. Computer literate
with a sound knowledge of excel. Experience in provincial procurement
processes and systems. Good written communication skills for Report writing
and writing motivations for new products and equipment.
DUTIES : Manages day-to-day operations of a Diagnostic Radiography department,
maintaining appropriate schedules (both staffing and patients) and monitoring
performance improvement, safety quality and regulatory and accreditation
standards. Support the organizational mission, priorities, and goals by
delivering cost effective, optimal quality care to all patients. Ensure equipment
and procedures are safe, functional, and capable of meeting the needs in a
timely manner, and all necessary and required QA/QC activities are performed
appropriately and that all QA/QC equipment is properly maintained in,
accordance with radiation control requirements. Ensure that the picture
archiving communication system (PACS) is monitored daily, Training is
undertaken, and images are sent to relevant hospitals on request. Keeps
abreast of new developments in Diagnostic Radiography / Radiology and
makes recommendations of the acquisition and implementation of new
technology. Participate in the development of departmental policies and audits.
Responsible for the development of operational and strategic plans for the
department. Identify gaps in the department and develop Quality improvement
65
plans to address said gaps. Good knowledge of HR processes to ensure that
staff are guided and the department able to provide the services needed.
General management of personnel, ordering of supplies utilizing LOGIS, to
ensure sufficient stock. Assessment of personnel performance using PMDS.
Coordinates continuous in-service education and new employee orientation as
needed to satisfy regulatory and development requirements. Monitor
performance improvement, safety, quality, regulatory and accreditation
standards. Assume effective managerial/administrative responsibilities such as
report writing, audits, Statistics, performance appraisal, meetings, Labour
relations, legal report writing, leave management, policy development etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
POST 30/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RADIATION ONCOLOGY GRADE 1-2 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADRADO/FTH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R638 856 – R707 625 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R727 350 – R807 243 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification in radiotherapy that allows for registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an independent
practitioner. Registration with the HPCSA as Radiotherapist (Independent
Practice). Experience: A minimum of 5 years of experience in the relevant field
post community service of which 3 years must be at a supervisory/managerial
capacity. Experience in a hospital environment, supervisory experience and
additional qualifications in the relevant field will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies: Sound knowledge of relevant legislation
guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e., Health Act,
Occupational health and Safety, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele principles,
Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realization Framework etc. Good
communication skills, Report writing skills, problem solving and decision
making, and computer skills. Sound knowledge and skills in a clinical setting.
Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Plan, implement, co-ordinate and monitor daily activities in the Radiation
Therapy department. Manage the operations and workflow of the department
by maintaining appropriate schedules (patient and staffing). Ensure optimal
clinical management and good governance of Radiotherapy services including
all resources in the section. Ordering of supplies utilizing Logis to ensure
sufficient stock. Monitor performance improvement, safety, quality, regulatory
and accreditation standards. Supports the organization’s mission, priorities and
goals by delivering cost effective optimal quality treatment and care to cancer
patients. Ensure equipment and procedures are safe, functional and capable
of meeting the needs in a timely manner and all necessary and required QA/QC
activities are performed appropriately and all QA/QC equipment is properly
maintained in accordance with the requirements of Radiation Control. Keep
abreast of new developments in Radiation Therapy and make
recommendations for the acquisition and implementation of new technology.
Participate in the development of treatment programs, SOP’s, department
policies, and audits. Responsible for the development of operation and
strategic plans for the department. Manage provision of high-quality services
through development and implementation of appropriate systems, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Manage human resources and
provide clinical support to junior staff and training program for students.
Assume effective managerial/administrative responsibilities such as report
writing, audits, Statistics, performance appraisal, meetings, labour relations,
legal report writing, leave management, policy development etc. Manage
planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost center. Safeguard and evaluate the
status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and maintenance
programme. Market and promote Radiotherapy services and contribute
towards research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
POST 30/63 : CHIEF SPEECH THERAPIST REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CSPT/FTH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2025
SALARY : R575 250 - R638 856 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
66
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for the required registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in speech therapy or speech
therapy and audiology. Registration with the HPCSA in Speech Therapy or
Speech Therapy and Audiology. A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience
in speech therapy or speech therapy and audiology after registration with the
HPCSA as an Independent Practitioner. The following will be added advantage:
Experience in management of speech, language, communication and feeding
difficulties in the adult population Knowledge: Public Service Act and
Regulations. Batho-Pele principles. PFMA Quality Assurance. Labour
relations: Disciplinary and Conflict Management Procedures. Skills:
Communication (written and verbal). Ability to work under pressure in a
challenging environment. Interpersonal and Listening skills. Computer Literacy.
Research skills. The following will be an added advantage: Working experience
in an academic hospital with the adult population.
DUTIES : To coordinate and provide effective speech therapy service to in and
outpatients. Manage a team of speech therapists within the speech therapy
and audiology department. To be responsible for the management of the adult
speech therapy services and to ensure the implementation and review of
evidence-based protocols and procedures, and regular clinical monitoring of
service provision and the ongoing development of services. Planning and
problem solving appropriately. Identifying departmental needs, managing
waiting list, participating in implementing new services and developing
management protocols for improved patient care. Control the identification of
the needs of therapeutic programmes and the execution thereof. Ensure
quality/ risk management and control. Develop and review departmental
policies, procedures and protocols and ensure adherence to applicable health
legislation. Manage, monitor assistive devices and control. Appropriate
budgeting and demand plan. To manage all resources appropriately. Keep
records, manage information and write reports as per provincial guidelines.
Monitor, improve and report on the quality of teamwork. Provide mentoring to
team members and identify training needs of team members and implement
skills development programme. Collect and analyse data and contribute
research. To participate in all department, hospital and provincial activities. To
work within an MDT approach including attendance and participation in
providing education and counselling to patients, family and caregivers and
participation in MDT meetings. Monitoring and reviewing patient progress.
Documenting patient information, statistics, attending ward rounds,
discussions and meeting within a multidisciplinary team. Contributing to service
development by monitoring, evaluating and co-ordination of existing and new
services. Providing public education regarding feeding and communication
difficulties. To comply with all departmental procedures and protocols. To
manage all resources appropriately. To complete monthly statistics and reports.
To participate in all departmental, hospital and provincial activities. Reportable
to the assistant director of speech therapy and Audiology. Comply with
Performance Management and Development System (contracting, quarterly
reviews, and final assessments).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532.
POST 30/64 : EMS COURSE COORDINATOR GRADE 4 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/EMSCC/FTH/ARP/HPTD/01/08/2025
SALARY : R528 072 – R594 864 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of the B Tech degree that allows registration with the
HPCSA as ECP. Registration with the HPCSA as paramedic or ECP.
Experience as a Paramedic: Not applicable. Experience as a ECP: 6 Years
after registration with the HPCSA as ECP. Additional experience: Applicants
must have a minimum of two (2) years’ experience as a lecturer in the field of
Emergency Medical Care and Rescue at an Emergency Care College or
University offering these programs. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills):
Experience in teaching, assessment and moderation in the field of emergency
medical care and rescue. Experience in curriculum development will be
advantages. Previous and appropriate management and administration skills.
The ability to coordinate and work in a team. Effective time management,
coordinating and multitasking skills. Problem solving and decision-making
abilities. Computer literacy. A valid driver`s license C1 with a valid professional
drivers permit (PrDP).
67
DUTIES : Coordinating clinical coordination for programs offered by the college which
included but are not limited to: Medical Programs: Higher Certificate in
Emergency Medical Care, Diploma in Emergency Medical Care, Clinical
Practice and various CPD programs. Rescue programs include: Advanced
Certificate in Medical Rescue as well as Rescue Short Courses. Manage
clinical preceptors within the experiential learning platform. Attend to any other
college daily operational duties as deemed necessary by college management.
May be required to assist on other programmes offered at the college from time
to time if deemed necessary by college management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911
68
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is the intention of the Department to promote representative through the filling these positions. The
candidature from the designated groups especially women and people with disabilities will be given a
preference and no hand delivery will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS : Applications for the Department of Social Development to be submitted to:
Private Bag X20616, Bloemfontein, 9300, or place applications in an
application box at Cnr Charlotte Maxeke and West Burger Street, Old Standard
Bank Building, Bloemfontein Tel No: 083 555 9270. or E-mail to
recruitment@fssocdev.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms AW Molalenyane – Human Resource Management (Recruitment Section)
Old Standard Bank Building
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, for SMS (senior management
service) posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity
development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements for
members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully signed
Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR
on or before the interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be
required to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six
(6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 or 24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents will
result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In the filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/65 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICTS AND INSTITUTIONS REF NO: DSDFS 65/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
69
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate plus a recognised NQF 7 Qualification in Public
Administration/Administration Management or equivalent qualification. Five (5)
years of experience senior managerial level in Administration. The
requirements for appointment at SMS Level include the successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by NSG. Valid
Drivers’ License. Knowledge: Knowledge of Government Communications
Regulatory Frameworks. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Knowledge of Public Services Act, public services regulations and
frameworks. Ability to Conceptualise policy and apply it successfully. Skills:
Written and verbal communication skills at a high level (report writing,
presentation, etc.). Planning and organising. Computer Literacy. Negotiation.
Must have good interpersonal skills and be able to maintain positive
interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently and as part of the team.
Must be willing to travel and be able to work under pressure. Must be able to
manage and empower staff. High level of reliability, ability to act with tact and
discretion. Personal Attributes: A creative, assertive and confident approach.
Ample initiative and an independent work ethic, self–motivated and reliable.
Ability to provide vision, set organisational direction and inspire others to
deliver organisational mandate. Must have good interpersonal skills and be
able to maintain positive interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently
and as part of the team. Must be willing to travel and be able to work under
pressure. Must be able to manage and empower staff. High level of reliability,
ability to act with tact and discretion. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication. Appointment is
subject to the following: Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract,
Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : To oversee the management and facilitation of the implementation of integrated
developmental social services at district level. Ensure the co-ordination and
integration of service delivery to service points and departmental institutions.
Oversee the effective management of the districts by monitoring the provision
of Social Welfare Services, facilitating the provision of Community
Development, Support Services and Financial Management. Coordinate
implementation of services at the Institutions of the department. Ensure
implementation of partnerships strategy to mobilize role players and
stakeholders to strengthen service delivery. Facilitation of District development
model for the Department. Provide strategic Leadership. Manage key areas of
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated
POST 30/66 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPECIALIST SOCIAL (RESTORATIVE) SERVICES REF
NO: DSDFS 66/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Social
Work. Five (5) years relevant experience at a senior managerial level. SMS
Pre–Entry is not a requirement for shortlisting but must be submitted prior to
the appointment. The candidate must have sound knowledge: White Paper on
Social Welfare, Integrated Service Delivery model and reviewed Social Welfare
Services Framework and Social Welfare Legislations. The candidate must
have strategic capabilities and leadership skills, change management skills,
problem solving and conflict management, people management and conflict
management, people management and empowering skills, knowledge
management and networking skills. Values/attitudes: Batho Pele principles.
70
Appointment is subject to the following: Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS
Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Oversee the provision of strategic direction to the specialist social services and
Programmes. Manage and coordinate all activities towards ensuring the
effective and efficient functioning of the Chief Directorate. Facilitating
implementation of the following Sub Programmes: HIV/AIDS, Anti-Substance
Abuse, Social Crime Prevention and Victim Empowerment and Support
Programmes, provide leadership, management, planning and coordination of
the functions of the Chief Directorate. Facilitate programme implementation,
monitoring and reporting on the planned strategic outputs and outcomes of the
Chief Directorate. Ensure integration and coordination of services with sector
departments and all other relevant partners. Ensure compliance with key
legislative and other regulatory requirements applicable to the Chief
Directorate of the Department, by managing the development of policies in
respect Specialist Social Services. Manage the review process of policies in
line with new developments or amended legislation. Ensure the participation in
formation of policy/legislation at National and Provincial level. Ensure the
prompt and accurate response to Auditor General findings and queries based
on AG timeframes. Ensure sound financial management within the Chief
Directorate, by developing and managing the budget of the Chief Directorate,
ensure expenditure of the allocated budget with the prescripts of PFMA and
other policies and legislations, ensure the implementation of financial controls
within the Chief Directorate, prevent unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and
wasteful expenditure and report non- compliance to the CFO. Overall manage
and development of the resources of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
POST 30/67 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DSDFS:67/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), An all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree at NQF level 7 as recognised by
SAQA in Law, Human Resource Management/ Human Resource
Development/ Organisational Development/Public Management, coupled with
5 years relevant senior management experience. SMS Pre–Entry is not a
requirement for shortlisting but must be submitted prior to the appointment. A
valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Work experience
and knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Collective Bargaining Prescripts, Human Resource Policies and
Practices of the Public Service, Transformation of the Public Service (White
Paper), Public Finance Management Act and working knowledge of the
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act; Treasury Regulations, and DPSA’s
Toolkit for Organisational Design. Knowledge of and Skills in Organisational
Development, Security Services Management; Skills and Work experience in
Human Resource Administration and multi–year Human Resource Planning.
Computer literacy; Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management
and Empowerment; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI); Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus;
Communication Skills; Ability to work under pressure; Flexibility to work after
hours; Teamwork-oriented. Ability to maintain open relationships with all labour
unions. Appointment is subject to the following: Performance Agreement,
Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the human, financial, governance, compliance, systems and
risk aspects of the chief directorate and ensure successful execution and
delivery of the priorities, programs and projects. Oversee the development and
implementation of Human Resources Management strategies and systems
and drive the integration and execution of culture, change, wellness,
performance, labour relations and other human resources services. Oversee
the management of Information Technology functions of the Department to
71
ensure the establishment of sound information Management Systems. Ensure
the provision of legal support services in the department; Oversee the provision
of legal support and advisory services to the Department. Ensure the provision
of strategic information management and information technology services in
the department. Define and drive the implementation of corporate strategies in
the department. Ensure effective and efficient management of human and
financial resources of the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Rampai at 066 487 6108
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated
POST 30/68 : DIRECTOR: SOCIAL CRIME PREVENTION AND VICTIM EMPOWERMENT/
SUPPORT PRORAMMES REF NO: DSDFS 68/25
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Social
Work plus 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level
(Management experience in victim empowerment or social welfare services; or
criminal justice environment will be an added advantage). Registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker.
Knowledge of the relevant public service legislation. Knowledge of legislation
governing the implementation of VEP programmes within the JCPS sector.
Knowledge of VEP and criminal justice field. SMS Pre–Entry is not a
requirement for shortlisting but must be submitted prior to the appointment.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management skills. Policy analysis and
development skills. Change management skills. Knowledge management
skills. Communication (verbal and written) skills. Service delivery innovation
skills. Problem-solving skills. People management and empowerment skills.
Client orientation and customer focus skills. Stakeholder management skills.
Presentation and facilitation skills. Appointment is subject to the following:
Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment,
and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Manage, facilitate and monitor the development of policies, guidelines, norms
and standards pertaining to victim empowerment and prevention of gender-
based violence. Manage and facilitate the provision of Probation Services.
Manage and facilitate the provision of Crime Prevention. Formulate and
manage the Victim Empowerment Programmes. Formulate and manage the
Crime Prevention and Support Programme. Formulate and manage the
Probation Services. Design marketing strategies and plans to implement
programmes pertaining to VEP and prevention of gender-based violence.
Identify policy implementation challenges and advise on possible interventions
to address the gaps. Develop mentoring and coaching model for emerging
organisations. Facilitate the dispensing of funds to national NGO’s
implementing VEP and prevention of gender-based violence programmes.
Manage, plan and co-ordinate all resources in the Directorate in line with
departmental policies and strategies, which includes the budget, human
resources, equipment, official vehicles. etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Nondabula at 060 9851 798
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
POST 30/69 : DIRECTOR: NPO INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY REF NO: DSDFS 69/25
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
72
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in
General management/Finance/Public Management. Five (5) years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Plus experience in Capacity
Building (NPO). SMS Pre–Entry is not a requirement for shortlisting but must
be submitted prior to the appointment. The candidate must have vast
knowledge of NPO Sector, conversant with various aspects of the Legal
Framework on NPO, particularly the NPO Act. Strategic Capacity and
Leadership, Change Management, Financial Management, Business
Management, Computer Literacy, Analytical Skills, Stakeholder participation
and planning skills. The candidate must have ability to work under pressure,
Ability to work in a team, Confidence, Patient, Accurate, Systematic and
Logical, Adaptable, Discipline, Diversity, Commitment, Friendly and
trustworthy, Diplomacy, Independent and self-starter, Assertive, Persuasive
and Business Ethics. Appointment is subject to the following: Performance
Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial
Disclosure.
DUTIES : Strategically plan, guide, coordinate and manage the development and
successful implementation of the following departmental policies and
strategies as well as services in the Department in line with National and
Provincial frameworks: Ensure that funded and unfunded NPOs are
capacitated in terms of the NPO Act and other relevant prescripts. Facilitate
registration of NPOs (emerging and existing CBO’s and FBO’s with National
DSD. Facilitate the establishment of Integrated NPO Forums at Provincial,
District and Local/Municipal levels in collaboration with other service delivery
partner. Assess the quality of service delivery by NPOs which receive financial
awards from the Department of Social development through structured
processes of Financial Monitoring and Compliance. Ensure the development
of the Directorates’ 5- year Strategic Plan, 3 year Performance Plan and Annual
Business Plan in line with priorities as set out in the Free State Growth and
Development Strategy and monitor the performance of the Directorate against
its strategic objectives, including implementing remedial steps where and when
necessary towards improving the performance of Directorate. Represent the
Department and participate in various national and Provincial Committees and
fora on matters related to the above. Ensure the monitoring and responding to
Auditor General findings and queries. Manage, plan and co-ordinate all
resources in the Directorate in line with departmental policies and strategies,
which includes the budget, human resources, equipment, official vehicles. etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. W Direko at 066 4876 191
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
POST 30/70 : DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DSDFS:70/25
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree at NQF level 7 as recognised by
SAQA in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development/
Organisational Development/ Public Management, coupled with 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Good understanding of the
Public Service transformation and reform agenda to inform the improvement of
the macro-organisation of the department. Sound understanding of the Public
Service Act and regulations and a basic understanding of legislation applicable
across the public sector. Experience in at least two of the following areas:
Public Sector policy analysis, development, implementation and maintenance.
Organisational structuring and business process development, analysis and
improvement. Conducting research for policy analysis and development.
73
Understanding of project management cycle, including procurement of service
providers and budgeting. Note: A requirement for appointment at Director Level
is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme
as endorsed by the National School of Government. SMS Pre–Entry is not a
requirement for shortlisting but must be submitted prior to the appointment. A
valid driver’s license. Appointment is subject to the following: Performance
Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial
Disclosure.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision and implementation of human resource development and
management within the department. Departmental HRD strategy/ work place
skills plan: Ensure development of WSP and presentation to the training
committee, ensure that the relevant service providers are selected, Manage
the development of programme schedule, Assess the learning programmes.
Transversal training and development in the department: Ensure that approval
is granted for the training activities which are taking place, Monitor and
evaluate the execution of training activities, ensure proper record keeping,
Ensure payment according to prescripts. Learnerships, Internships, bursaries
and scholarship ensure execution of knowledge management in the
department. To ensure the proper implementation of the performance
management system: Implementation of performance management system,
Development of performance agreements for both level 1-12 and SMS, PMDS
quality assurance and moderating committees’ establishment and monitoring
of meetings, Spreadsheet for level 1-12 and SMS, Annual submission for
implementation of PMDS assessments and moderating outcomes. To provide
and render advice on all organisational design issues within the department:
Review and maintenance of organizational structure, monitoring of staff
establishment control, Implementation and monitoring of job description and
job evaluation, Development of business process maps and standard
operating procedures, Development of service delivery model, Norms and
Standards for various occupational categories. To ensure the management of
financial and human resources: Optimal utilization of financial resources,
Optimal utilization of human resources, Ensure the development and training
of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Finger at 072 95 43160
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
POST 30/71 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSDFS 71/25
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management/
Public Administration/ logistics/Purchasing or equivalent qualification as
recognized by SAQA, coupled with a minimum of 5 years middle/senior
managerial level experience in supply chain management. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of code of conduct for Supply Chain
Management Practitioners, Knowledge of LOGIS, BAS, CSD and other
relevant information management systems and Public Service SCM policies
and procedures. Interpersonal relations skills, communication, negotiation
skills, facilitation, presentation, report writing computer literacy skills, honesty
and integrity, problem solving and decision making skills. Note: A requirement
for appointment at Director Level is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government. Appointment is subject to the following: Performance Agreement,
Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Maintain and improve the departmental supply chain management system in
line with legislative requirements and National Treasury’s norms and
standards. Manage and direct the provision of demand and acquisition
management service. Develop efficient and cost-effective supply chain
strategies. Manage the departmental bidding process i.e. specification,
evaluation and adjudication processes in line with relevant policies and
74
standard operating procedures. Responsible for asset management and
disposal. Establish and maintain proper control systems for departmental
assets and mechanisms aimed at eliminating theft and losses, wastage and
misuse of assets. Manage and direct the provision of contract management
services Manage Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) with suppliers and service
providers. Effective and efficient inventory management. Effective and efficient
fleet management. Manage the allocated resources in line with legislative and
departmental policy directives and comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Rampai at 066 487 6108
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
POST 30/72 : DIRECTOR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, ANTI-FRAUD AND
CORRUPTION REF NO: DSDFS 72/25
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Security
Management/Public Administration/ General Management or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA, coupled with a minimum of 5 years
middle/senior managerial level experience in supply chain management. A
valid driver’s license. Experience and knowledge of all aspects of security and
specifically electronic security systems and acts, prescripts and guidelines
relevant to security. Strong leadership, people management and
communication (written and verbal) skills. Other skills required include
computer literacy, drafting of policies and procedures, problem solving, basic
project and financial management and presentation skills. The successful
candidate must have excellent interpersonal relations, innovative ideas to
improve service delivery and the ability to mobilize and motivate staff to ensure
implementation of these innovations. A requirement for appointment at Director
Level is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. Appointment
is subject to the following: Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract,
Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision and management of the 24 hour Physical security and
access control to the departmental premises, Co-ordinate security issues
related to events as part of a project team, Management of personnel security
including security clearances, Conducting of security audits, management of
ICT security related to physical assets and information security, management
of security staff, management of section budget and expenditure and
conducting and management of investigations related to security breaches
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
NOTE : NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/73 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER (DEMAND AND ACQUISITION)
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: DSDFS 73/25 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/national diploma (NQF Level 6) in Supply
Chain Management/ Purchasing Management/ Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Business Management/ Logistics Management or related
qualification. A minimum of three (2) to three (3) years of work experience in
Demand and Acquisition Management. Knowledge of the PFMA, PPPFA, SCM
guidelines, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Framework Act, and B- BBEE
Act. Skills in management of three Bid Committees, BSC, BEC, and BAC.
75
Good interpersonal, verbal, and written communication skills. Customer
relationship and change management skills. Ability to solve problems
(decision-making) and effectively interact with stakeholders at all levels within
the Department. Analytical, planning, and organizing skills. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Assist end users with the timely development of the specifications/ terms of
reference for sourcing quotes and bids. Assist end users with the compilation
of Demand Management Plans and Procurement Plans. Source suppliers from
CSD on a rotation basis and ensure compliance with demand & acquisition
management principles. Coordinate briefing sessions. Compile and update bid
and contract register; compile tender (bid) documents in consultation with the
Bid Committees or as required. Publication of terms of reference/specifications
for bids; receive and register bids; conduct pre- administration check on bids
received; store bid proposals and publish details of proposals received and
awards made. Provide bid committee assistance including but not limited to
secretarial function. Coordinate bid-related matters with end users. Compile
contract files stemming from departmental bids; ensure safe storing documents
and information for record and audit purposes. Prepare management
information, reports, statistics, and reporting on procurement to management.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Nkhatho at 066 486 6664
POST 30/74 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL) REF NO: DSDFS
78/25 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Engineering (Civil or Electrical). Three years post
qualification technical experience. (Proof of recognized experience will be
requested from the shortlisted candidates). Valid driver’s licence. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Candidate
who are registered as Candidate Engineering Technologist may also apply.
Project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided-engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Networking. Professional judgment.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities. Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology; and
Produce technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and
approval by the relevant authority. Perform administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required; Compile and
submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases; and (v) Supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets. Research and development: Continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise; and Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Mcina at 084 646 9090
POST 30/75 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: INTERNAL COMMUNICATION REF NO:
DSDFS 74/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/diploma or equivalent qualification with at least three years’
experience within a communications environment. Knowledge of the
Departmental Communication Strategy, Public Finance Management Act,
Municipal Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and Public Service
Regulations.
DUTIES : Develop articles for all the departmental publications to ensure effective
communication. Monitor the media and trends to determine issues that must
be reported on as a matter of urgency. Coordinate departmental events in order
to promote the image of the Department. Facilitate the maintenance and
production of all branding material to maintain the corporate identity of the
Department. Compile and develop reports on events, media releases,
76
publications and media briefings/press conferences within the province.
Distribute departmental publications (Budget Speech, Annual Reports etc.) to
all targeted stakeholders. Planning, writing and maintaining web site content.
Classifying and categorising information and uploading it to relevant platforms.
Using content management systems (CMS). Knowledge of current affairs,
communication and the function of government. Research, collect and write
content for the Newsletter, website and social media platforms. Ensure that the
department’s website, intranet and social media pages are constantly updated
with recent information. Maintain formal and informal relationships with internal
and external stakeholders. Optimise the organisation’s digital medium as a
communication tool.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Nqabeni at 066 476 6193
POST 30/76 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION REF NO:
DSDFS 75/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/diploma or equivalent qualification with at least three years’
experience within a communications environment. Knowledge of the
Departmental Communication Strategy, Public Finance Management Act,
Municipal Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and Public Service
Regulations.
DUTIES : Develop articles for all the departmental publications to ensure effective
communication. Produce materials for departmental online media to keep
officials informed of current affairs. Co-ordinate departmental events in order
to promote the image of the Department and to profile the MEC. Facilitate the
maintenance and production of all branding material to maintain the corporate
identity of the Department. Assist the Media Liaison Officer on parliamentary
work. Facilitate the development and delivery of all public relations and
communication materials, and ensure the quality of the content. Build, manage
and maintain key strategic relationships with media houses and key
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Nqabeni at 066 476 6193
POST 30/77 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER MR1-3 REF NO: DSDFS 79/25
SALARY R252 855 - R371 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and LLB. Knowledge of relevant Acts and
Prescripts, knowledge of Constitution, PFMA, knowledge of PAJA and PAIA,
Computer literacy, good verbal and written communication skills and project
management skills. MR1: No experience MR2: At least 1 year’s appropriate
post qualification legal experience. MR3: at least 2 year’s appropriate post
qualification legal experience.
DUTIES : Draft legal documents. Provide legal opinion and advice to the Department.
Draft, vet and edit contracts, service level agreements, conduct litigation and
liaise with the state attorney and state law advisor on litigation for and against
the Department. Represent the Department at various forums and committee.
Make presentations on legislation and case law that has a bearing on the
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
POST 30/78 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: DEMAND AND LOGISTICS REF
NO: DSDFS 77/25 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma in Supply
Chain Management / Logistics / Public Management) equivalent/related
qualification. Basic knowledge of supply management duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data. Knowledge of assets disposal procedure.
Knowledge and understating of legislative framework governing Public
Services. Knowledge of procedures in terms of the working environment.
Knowledge of assets management. Knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury
Regulations and the CET Act. Planning and organizing, Communication (verbal
77
and written), computer literacy, flexibility, customer care orientation. Flexibility
and teamwork.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support by performing the following
tasks: update and maintain supplier (Including contractors) database; register
suppliers on business management system; request and receive quotations;
capture specification on the electronic purchasing system; place orders; Issue
and receive quotations; provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid
consideration and contracts conclusion process and compile draft documents
as required. Render logistical services by placing orders; receive and verify
goods from suppliers; capture goods in registers database; receive request for
goods from end users and issue goods to end users. Conduct spot checks and
stock counts. Maintain records and filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Nkhatho at 066 486 6664
POST 30/79 : INDEPENDENT/EXTERNAL CHAIRPERSON OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REF NO: DSDFS 76/25
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury.
REQUIREMENTS : The Department of Social Development invites applications of suitably qualified
person to serve as Independent/External Chairperson in Department’s Risk
Management Committee. The Department as a Government Institution is
required, in terms of Section 38B(I)(a)(i) of the Public Finance Management
Act, to implement and maintain "effective, efficient and transparent systems of
financial, risk management and internal control. Minimum Requirements: An
independent external person, with extensive knowledge of the relevant
regulations and prescripts including the Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, IS0 31000, the King IV Report on Corporate
Governance, COSO and Public Sector Risk Management Framework.
Experience in Strategic Planning, Stakeholder relations / management, Risk
Management, Financial Management, Internal Control, Compliance, Anti-
Fraud and Corruption, Business Continuity and Auditing. Experience and
suitable skills in Risk Governance, Compliance Management and Ethics
Management. Experience/know how in designing, implementing and
monitoring Business Continuity Management strategies. Experience in serving
in oversight committees. Knowledge and or experience in the public sector will
be an added advantage. Must be a member of a professional body, preferably
in Risk Management.
DUTIES : The Chairperson: The candidate will chair the Department’s Risk Management
Committee and provide an oversight role in ensuring that the Risk Management
Committee (RMC) functions properly. Providing support to the Chief Risk
Officer. Monitoring the implementation of risk management strategy within
Department. Ensuring that the identified risk mitigation strategies employed by
Department are evaluated for their effectiveness. Assisting in reviewing risk
management action plans to be instituted and ensuring compliance with such
plans. Assisting in integrating risk management into planning, monitoring and
reporting processes. Prepare and present the Risk Management Chairperson’s
Report to the Audit Committee and Accounting Officer, other management
committees / other oversight structures and the Audit Committee on a quarterly
basis. Assisting the department in ensuring that it improves its risk maturity
level. Assisting the department institution in the development of the most
effective measures to prevent, detect and investigate fraud and corruption.
Serving as standing invitee of the Audit Committee and Ethics Committee. With
regard to management of the Committee: Take all reasonable steps to ensure
that the Committee fulfils its obligations and responsibilities. Call and chair
quarterly meetings and special meetings. Set the agenda for each Committee
meeting with the Chief Risk Officer. Maintain an ethical and responsible
decision-making framework at Committee level and address any potentially
unethical or dishonest situations or potential conflict of interest brought to
his/her attention in a timely and efficient manner. Provide overall leadership to
the Committee without limiting the principles of collective responsibilities of
Committee decisions. Take all reasonable steps to encourage participation of
all Committee Members in the Committee meetings and to facilitate free and
constructive discussion. Maintain a good working relationship with the
Secretariat to ensure that tasks to be completed between meetings are
completed. Term Of Office: The duration of the appointment of the Chairperson
78
is for three (3) years from the date of appointment, subject to renewal at the
discretion of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
NOTE : NB Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of
these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference, should be forwarded as follows:
The Deputy Director: Human Resources Management, Free State Provincial
Treasury, Private Bag X20537, Bloemfontein, 9300. Attention: Ms. N Mokotso,
Fidel Castro Building, applications that are hand delivered must be brought to
the foyer of Fidel Castro Building where they must be placed in the
appropriately marked box at: Security, Ground Floor, Fidel Castro Building, Cnr.
Markgraaff and Miriam Makeba Streets, Bloemfontein. Applications may also
be e-mailed to recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. N Mokotso
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new Z.83 form
(Updated version that came into effect on 1 January 2021), obtainable from
any Public Service Department and must only be accompanied by a detailed
Curriculum Vitae (Subjects of relevant qualification(s) should be mentioned in
the CV). The Curriculum Vitae should be specific regarding previous positions
occupied and the start date and end date of the position(s) should be indicated.
Applicants are requested to complete the Z83 form properly and in full. The
department name, post title and reference number of the advertised post
should be stated on the Z83. Only short-listed candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on, or
before the day of the interview following an invitation from the Department to
attend an interview, and such qualification(s) and other related document(s)
should be in line with the requirements of the advertisement. Candidates will
also be subjected to a practical test/exercise as well as an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applications received after the closing date and those
that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered. The onus is
on the applicants to ensure that their applications are posted, hand delivered
or e-mailed timeously. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications and/or
short courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial assets check, qualification verification and reference checks). The
Department reserves the right not to make appointments on the advertised
post(s).
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 019/25
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year degree or Advanced Diploma in Supply Chain Management,
Commerce, Financial Management, Accounting or equivalent qualification.
Minimum of Three (3) or five (5) years’ experience and extensive experience
in Supply Chain Management of which three (3) years should have been on an
Assistant Director/supervisory level. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act, Public Service Policies and procedures Working knowledge
of the functioning of National/Provincial as well as Local Government.
Knowledge of Project Management, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act
and Regulation. Knowledge and understanding of local government legislation,
financial ratios and their interpretation. Skills: Strategic Capability and
79
Leadership, Financial Management and People Management. Must possess
the following skills: Leadership, report writing, analytical, communication,
presentation-, project management-, and conflict management. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage Demand Management Services. Guide to the design and
development of Strategic Procurement Strategy. Monitor Acquisitions
management Services. Monitor Public Private Partnerships (PPP)
Infrastructure Procurement and Major Capital Projects. Manage the
development and maintenance of strategic procurement strategies. Manage
the performance of Transversal Contracts. Manage the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Riddles at 079 892 2293 (during office hours only)
POST 30/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 020/25
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the rules for the structuring
of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th cheque, motor car
allowance, housing allowance and medical aid assistance)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Degree or Diploma in Financial Management, Accounting and
Commerce or equivalent qualification with accounting 3 as a major subject and
a minimum of five (5) years’ experience in an accounting environment of which
three (3) years should have been on an Assistant Director/supervisory level.
Knowledge of the Municipal Finance Management Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue Act and
Municipal Structures Act. Must possess the following skills: Leadership, report
writing-, analytical, communication-, presentation-, project management-, and
conflict management. Computer literate. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the development and maintenance of policies, strategies and systems
for asset and inventory management. Monitor and support departments and
entities on safeguarding of assets. Monitor and support departments on
financial management and reporting on assets and inventory. Monitor and
support departments and public entities on asset and inventory management
strategies. Manage the implementation of transparent and economic practices
to deal with asset disposal in the provincial administration. Coordinate the
capacitation of asset and inventory management section in the departments
and public entities. Manage the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Riddles at 079 892 2298 (during Office hours only)
POST 30/82 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: FSPT 022/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Public Administration/
Public Management/Strategic Planning or equivalent qualification with a
minimum of five (5) years’ working experience within the Public Service
environment. Experience in strategic management, monitoring and evaluation
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Strategic Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation mechanisms, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA),
Treasury Regulations and other local government legislation. Must possess the
following skills: Presentation, communication-, and problem solving. Computer
literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To develop and maintain Strategic Planning and Monitoring & Evaluation
policies as well as related implementation strategies in line with national and
provincial frameworks. To facilitate the development and review of the
Departments’ Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan and Annual
Operational Plan in line with national and provincial directives and guidelines.
To facilitate the implementation of the Strategic and Annual Performance Plans
and other injunctions. Monitor and report on the performance of the
Department in relation to the Strategic, Annual and Operational plans and
injunctions. Assist in implementing the Monitoring & Evaluation policies and
frameworks. Assist in developing capacity of managers and employees in the
80
Department on matters relating to Strategic and Operational Planning as well
as Monitoring & Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K B Mhlambi: kmhlambi@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/83 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION REF NO: FSPT
023/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Financial Management
or equivalent qualification with a minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ working
experience in basic accounting principles environment. Knowledge of Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Relevant Financial Management legislation and directives. Must
possess the following skills: Numeracy, communication, report writing and
problem solving. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation and maintenance of Financial Management
practices (BAS) transactions concerning financial processes in the Department
to contribute to the rendering of a professional financial administration services.
Verify and approve all documents and transactions on BAS according to
delegations. Monitor the successful implementation of Departmental/Public
Service policies as well as development of policies on matters related to
financial management to adhere to the relevant prescripts/legislation. Address
financial management enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of
financial management practices and policies. Prepare and consolidate
reports/reconciliation of BAS on financial management issues. Manage the
resources of the bookkeeping, paymaster general and cashier unit to ensure
the smooth running of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C T Qwabe: qwabec@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries purposes)
POST 30/84 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 024/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Supply Chain
Management/Public Administration/Management/Financial Management or
equivalent qualification with a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in a
supply chain management environment. Knowledge of supply chain
management legislations Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), SCM
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Framework Act (PPPFA) and its
associated regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act
(BBBEEA). Must possess the following skills: Presentation-, report writing-,
numeracy, research methodology-, communication-, and problem solving.
Computer literate.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, research, analysis and plan the procurement needs of the
Department. Coordinate, review, collect and collate information for the annual
procurement plan. Supervise and compile tender/quotation specifications as
required. Develop, implement and maintain the supplier database. Supervise
employees to ensure an effective demand management service and undertake
all administrative functions required with regard to financial and human
resource administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M A Mokoena: mokoenam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/85 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AND
FACILITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 025/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification (NQF level 6 or higher) in Supply Chain
Management/Public Administration/Management/Financial Management or
equivalent qualification with a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in an
administrative/supply chain management/financial management environment.
Knowledge of: Basic personnel administration, Basic Accounting System
(BAS), Treasury Regulations and Financial Regulations. Must possess the
81
following skills: Financial management, organizing, numeracy, communication,
and problem solving. Computer literate.
DUTIES : Implement financial administration to support the Manager with financial
administration. Render supply chain management support services. Supervise
the provisioning of housekeeping, cleaning, safeguarding and maintenance
services. Supervise human and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N V Ntukela-Tyam: ntukela.tyam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/86 : ACQUISITION PRACTITIONER REF NO: FSPT 026/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification (NQF level 6 or higher) in Supply Chain
Management/Public Administration/Management/Financial Management or
equivalent qualification with a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in a
supply chain management environment. Knowledge of supply chain
management legislations Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), SCM
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Framework Act (PPPFA) and its
associated regulations, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act
(BBBEEA). Must possess the following skills: Presentation-, report writing-,
numeracy, research methodology-, communication-, and problem solving.
Computer literate.
DUTIES : Proper administration of bid process. Attend briefing sessions to communicate
and share information related to SCM. Administer the procurement of goods
and services. Develop and maintain strong relations with internal & external
customers. Contract managed and administered.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M A Mokoena: mokoenam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/87 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT WITHIN THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER REF NO: FSPT 027/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6) with a minimum
of three (3) years relevant experience. Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies, e.g. The Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literate in MS Word, Excel and Power Point.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director. Render
an administrative support service to the Chief Director. To provide support to
the Chief Director regarding meetings. To support the Chief Director with the
administration of the Chief Director’s budget. Study the relevant Public Service
and Departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure efficient
and effective support to the Chief Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Botes: botesa@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries purposes)
POST 30/88 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET CONTROL REF NO: FSPT 028/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree/ diploma with Accounting/ Mathematics as a passed subject.
A minimum of three (3) years’ relevant experience in a Budget Control within
the Public Sector, Financial Control and Administrative environment.
Knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS), LOGIS, PERSAL and batch
control. Must possess the following skills: Numeracy-, communication-, report
writing and problem solving. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Review the implementation and maintenance of financial management
(BAS/PERSAL/LOGIS) transactions concerning financial processes in the
Department to contribute to the rendering of a professional financial
administration service. Address financial management enquiries to ensure the
correct implementation of financial management practices and policies.
Monitor the successful implementation of Departmental/Public Service policies
as well as development of policies on matters related to financial management
in order to adhere to relevant prescripts/legislation. Prepare reports on financial
management issues and statistics (BAS/PERSAL/LOGIS) per programme.
82
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L S Moteuli: moteulis@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries purposes)
POST 30/89 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: FSPT 021/25
SALARY : Grade 3-5: R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum, (A basic salary), (Salary will be
determined according to the number of years post qualification legal
experience in accordance with the OSD Determination).
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A LLB degree or an equivalent/recognized four-year law degree. At least two
(2) years post qualification legal experience. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Municipal Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Regulations, and other relevant legislation related to the Public
Sector environment. Computer literate. Good business communication,
interpersonal and analytical skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Identify legal capacity gaps within the Department. Market the Legal
Management Framework. Provide continuous support and guidance on the
implementation of the Legal Management Framework and guidelines within the
Department. Liaise with different stakeholders of the Department regarding
legal matters. Analyze documents and provide legal advice. Monitor the
application of legal matters. Act as a presiding officer during disciplinary
hearings. Draft legal service level agreements. Monitor compliance to service
level agreements. Create awareness on legal matters. Manage the human
resource of the Division to ensure the smooth functioning of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mhlambi: smhlambi@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries purposes)
POST 30/90 : SENIOR FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION CLERK: BOOKKEEPING REF NO:
FSPT 029/25
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate and experience within the Public Service environment.
Knowledge of relevant legislations and policies Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Implement and administer all documents and transactions on BAS, according
to delegations and approved policies. Handle the administrative functions of
cellular phone, USB and departmental telephone accounts for the Department.
Handle the administrative functions of claims payable and claims recoverable
accounts for the Department. Prepare report on financial administrative related
issues for informed decision making.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C T Qwabe: qwabec@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries purposes)
POST 30/91 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PAYMENTS REF NO: FSPT 030/25
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate and experience within the Public Service environment.
Knowledge of relevant legislations and policies, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To implement and maintain Supply Chain Management concerning payments
in the Department to contribute to the rendering of a professional Supply Chain
Management services. Address SCM enquiries to ensure the correct
implementation of SCM. Processing of invoices to ensure compliance to thirty
(30) days’ payment and prepare reports on invoices paid/payments issues and
statistics. Prepare reports on invoices paid/payments issues and statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N V Ntukela-Tyam: ntukela.tyam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/92 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ORDERS REF NO: FSPT 031/25
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate/qualification. Logis/BAS
certificate. Knowledge of supply chain management Policy, relevant supply
chain management prescripts. Must possess the following skills: Numeracy,
communication, computer, problem solving, literacy, analytical and
presentation skills. Values/attitude: Professionalism, client oriented, integrity,
83
commitment, confidentiality, innovation, collaborative, accountability, assertive
and proactive.
DUTIES : Printing and placing orders as per approved log 1’s. Place orders with approved
suppliers. Handle queries related to orders and batches. Forward original
batches to transit office and file copies of orders in the strong room. Prepare
reports on orders printed and send backs. Manage asset room list.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N V Ntukela-Tyam: ntukela.tyam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
POST 30/93 : PIOSENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF
NO: FSPT 032/25
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate and experience within the Public Service environment.
Knowledge of relevant legislations and policies, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support. Render demand and acquisition
clerical support. Render logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M A Mokoena: mokoenam@treasury.fs.gov.za (strictly for enquiries
purposes)
84
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted on a duly online completed Z83 form
Applications should be submitted strictly online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/Public/Jobs.aspx or
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/Public/Jobs.aspx
FOR ATTENTION : Human Capital management
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the
Public Service through the filling of these posts. Preference will be given to
people with disabilities. Applications should be submitted strictly online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/Public/Jobs.aspx or
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/Public/Jobs.aspx and it should be accompanied by
a most recent Z83 form and comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV), certified
copies of qualifications and Identity will be submitted upon request (no postal
or hand delivery applications will be accepted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Following the interview and exercise, the
selection panel will recommend SMS candidates to attend a generic
management competency assessment. The certificate for entry into SMS and
full details can be sourced by the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Preference will be given to female applicants for SMS posts. Correspondence
will only be limited to shortlisted candidates. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/94 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT AND SPATIAL
PLANNING REF NO: REFS/023221
Chief Directorate: Integrated Development and Spatial Planning
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF level 7/ Bachelor’s Degree in the Built Environment as
recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (Qualification that
enables registration with the South African Council for Planners as a Technical
or Professional Planner. A post-graduate qualification in the development
planning, spatial planning, urban planning, town/urban and regional planning
will be an added advantage. coupled with 5 years’ working experience at a
senior managerial level either at municipal or provincial/national level or a
combination of these and, preferably in the Urban Planning, Development
Planning, Spatial Planning, and related field. Furthermore, the recommended
candidate will be required to produce his/her SMS Pre-entry certificate as
offered by the National School of Governance (NSG) prior to the appointment
being made. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of legislation and
policies governing Integrated Development Planning, Intergovernmental
Planning, Intergovernmental Relations and coordination, Spatial Development
and Planning, Geographic Information Systems, Local Economic
Development; Knowledge and understanding of National and Provincial
programmes, and priorities relevant to Integrated Development Planning,
Intergovernmental Planning, Intergovernmental Relations and coordination,
Spatial Development and Planning, Geographic Information Systems, Local
Economic Development; Knowledge and understanding of intergovernmental
planning and implementation instruments, systems, and governance models;
Knowledge and understanding of intergovernmental planning and
implementation challenges and opportunities; Knowledge and understanding
of intergovernmental planning and implementation support methodologies and
programmes; Knowledge and understanding of intergovernmental planning
and implementation partnership methodologies and typologies; Knowledge of
85
legislation governing financial management; Knowledge of legislation and
policies governing human resource management; Knowledge of legislation and
policies governing supply chain management; Interpretation and
implementation of various legislation, programmes and policies relevant to
Integrated Development Planning, Intergovernmental Planning,
Intergovernmental Relations and coordination, Spatial Development and
Planning, Geographic Information Systems, Local Economic Development;
Ability to distinguish between and support where necessary, the political and
administrative mandates pertaining to integrated development planning in the
province and across municipalities; Programme and Project Management
associated with the development of IDPs, town/urban and regional planning,
spatial planning local economic development and development planning;
Ability to use various computer applications (Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft,
Excel); Ability to analyse and assess integrated development plans and
processes; Programme and Project Management; Analysis, Monitoring and
Evaluation; Report writing; Presentation; Communication; Ability to engage
with various stakeholders, municipalities and departments; Problem-solving
and conflict resolution; Financial Management; People Management; Change
Management; Leadership; Innovation. Valid driver’s license Minimum Code 8
(EB).
DUTIES : Manage the support and monitoring of the development of municipal
Integrated Development Plans (IDPs) across the GCR; Manage the
implementation of the District Development Model (DDM) across the GCR;
Manage the coordination of local economic development across the GCR;
Manage the development and review of the Gauteng Spatial Development
Framework; Manage support, to develop, review and implement municipal
Spatial Development Frameworks; Manage support to land use management
across the Gauteng City Region; Manage and solve conflict within the Chief
Directorate; Manage the Budget of the Chief Directorate; Manage the skills
development plan of the Chief Directorate; Manage the PMDS of the Chief
Directorate; Manage the audit finding and queries of the Chief Directorate;
Oversee leave management of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/95 : DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMMES REF NO: REFS/023222
Directorate: Transformation Programmes
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF level 7/ Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Social
Sciences, Humanities as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority, or relevant qualification, coupled with 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in Transformation Programmes or Related
Programs. Furthermore, the recommended candidate will be required to
produce his/her SMS Pre-entry certificate as offered by the National School of
Governance (NSG) prior to the appointment being made. Competencies:
Knowledge in local government and development studies; Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to plan, implement, monitor, and evaluate activities and
desired outputs in respect performance indicators and targets; Knowledge in
administrative procedures in the department; Ability to keep an office in a tidy
manner having a detailed tracking system for documents and effective filing
system; ability to obtain relevant information from correct sources within a
limited timeframes; Analytical skills; Project management skills; Report writing
skills; Communication skills; Problem solving skills; Conflict management
skills; Interpersonal skills; Planning and organising skills; Coordination skills;
Facilitation skills; Assertiveness; Negotiation skills; Work independently;
Honesty; Confidentiality; Responsibility; Accountability and Sharing;
Willingness to go beyond the call of duty.
DUTIES : Lead and manage capacity building initiatives on GEYODI mainstreaming and
gender-based violence and femicide; Manage and coordinate capacity building
initiatives through trainings and workshop programmes; Lead and manage the
nomination process of delegates to attend training; Ensure the monitoring of
training programmes; Ensure the development and management of training
database; Manage and monitor compliance of training programmes with
relevant legislation; Lead and manage the support to municipalities with
GEYODI mainstreaming initiatives; Ensure the provision of support to all
86
municipalities to ensure GEYODI mainstreaming; Ensure the monitoring of all
municipalities on transformation programmes; Ensure the capacitation of all
municipalities to ensure GEYODI programmes; Coordinate the implementation
of GBVF programmes in municipalities; manage and coordinate capacity
building programmes on GBVF in the department and municipalities; Ensure
the development of transformation policies and strategies and monitor
implementation in the department and municipalities; manage and develop
departmental gender, youth and people with disability mainstreaming action
plans; Manage and conduct advocacy sessions on departmental gender, youth
and people with disability mainstreaming programmes; Manage and conduct
compliance of departmental and municipal programmes to gender, youth and
people with disability mainstreaming targets, policies and action plans; Manage
and ensure reporting on the implementation of corrective action on
departmental and municipal programmes; Manage and coordinate the process
of hosting commemorative months in line with specific and relevant themes;
Ensure the liaising with specific municipality and stakeholders; Exercise
oversight and provide strategic support to the department and municipalities
with regards to transformation programmes; Ensure the monitoring of
communication, reporting and integration of the outputs to the units within the
department and externally with all stakeholders; Monitor and manage the
distribution of the sector presentations and commitments to all relevant
municipalities and stakeholders; Ensure the provision of written reports to the
supervisor on all TP-related meetings, sessions, conferences and workshops
within 7 days of attendance; Manage coordination of departmental GEYODI
mainstreaming; Ensure the monitoring and supporting HCM to ensure
employment equity targets are met; Ensure the monitoring and supporting
SCM to ensure BBBEE targets are met; Ensure the identification of GEYODI/
transformation empowerment programmes for the department and
municipalities; Manage the awarding of bursaries to learners with disabilities;
Ensure the liaising with institutions of higher learning to provide us with
database of deserving learners with disabilities; Manage and develop
submissions and award letters to the deserving learners with disabilities;
Ensure and monitor responses to enquiries from internal and external
stakeholders; Manage the collation and dissemination of all the sector strategic
plans, plan of action and all the GPG technical comments regarding
transformation programmes and GEYODI to all municipalities; Manage and
Departmental performance on GEYODI targets and plans from the relevant
business units; Manage all logistics related to GEYODI and committees;
Coordinate and compile reports to the HOD, MEC and legislature; Manage the
preparation and submission of quarterly, bi-annual and annual gender, youth
and people with disability mainstreaming reports; Manage and solve conflict
within the directorate; Manage the budget of the directorate; manage the skills
development plan of the directorate; Manage the PMDS of the directorate;
Manage the leave management of the directorate; manage the audit finding
and queries of the directorate; Ensure administrative support is given to
members of the directorate; manage logistical arrangements for all the unit’s
meetings/engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/96 : DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER LIAISON REF NO: REFS/023224
Directorate: Stakeholder Liaison
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF Level 7/ Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration,
Communications, Social Science as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority or equivalent qualification, coupled with 5 years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial. Furthermore, the recommended
candidate will be required to produce SMS Pre-entry certificate as offered by
the National School of Governance (NSG) prior to the appointment being
made. Competencies: Public Service Act and Regulations, PFMA, Government
processes of formulating policy, managerial skills, project management skills,
risk analysis skills, Interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, analytical skills
and report writing skills. A Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of stakeholder engagement
strategies, policies and procedures and ensure that stakeholder profiles
(interests and expectations) are analysed and maintained throughout the
87
delivery of a programme/project. Develop and implement creative, effective,
and fully coordinated communication strategies for both internal and external
stakeholders using appropriate channels of communication. Develop and
implement policies and procedures and action plans for stakeholder
engagement activities. Ensure the identification of innovative communications
solutions. Manage co-ordination of information gathering and dissemination
across various project teams. Ensure monitoring and evaluation of the
progress and outcomes of stakeholder engagement activities. Develop and
manage the stakeholder Management database. Develop positive links with
relevant stakeholder groups to ensure the transmission of information is
coordinated. Ensure compilation of monthly and quarterly reports on
implementation of Stakeholder Engagement activities. Ensure that the
council’s and community consultation and engagement standards are applied
consistently throughout the capital programmes and to demonstrate this
through management reports, gateway reviews and audits. Manage and / or
lead meetings and large group activities with strategic stakeholders and
encourage collaborative partnership. Ensure the provision of advice, support,
and brief of relevant stakeholders on matters relating to stakeholder
engagement activities and delivery of outcomes. Manage the facilitation and
coordination of events that publicize positive activities involving projects and
maintain an ongoing communications plan. Implementation of government
policies on civic education and promotion of participatory democracy.
Coordination of all spheres of government to promote effective civic awareness
on government programmes and services.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/97 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: REFS/023225
Directorate: Community Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF level 7/ Bachelor’s Degree in Development Work Social
Sciences as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority or
equivalent qualification, coupled with 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior
managerial in the Public Service. Furthermore, the recommended candidate
will be required to produce his/her SMS Pre-entry certificate as offered by the
National School of Governance (NSG) prior to the appointment being made.
Competencies: Financial management, knowledge of Community
Development work, relevant legislation & policies, programme management,
integrated approach to service delivery, computer literacy, planning, team
development, decision making, presentation, leadership, Community
Development, networking, communication, organizing, controlling, research. A
valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Customise the CDW national Policy Framework to an Implementation Plan for
(CDWP). Manage the establishment of Provincial and District Forums for co-
ordination and implementation of CDWP. Provide functional linkages between
the national offices (DCOG & DPSA) and the Provincial stakeholders in all
aspects of CDWP within Gauteng. Manage all developmental aspects of the
CDWP in accordance with the policy framework and standard guidelines.
Provide guidance and advisory services to Municipalities for the
implementation of CDWP within Gauteng. Manage processes for identification
of potential operational risks and obstacles to develop appropriate solutions
and proactively report deviations, trends, and problem areas to the CDW
National Coordinators Forum (NCF). Ensure analyses of consolidated
provincial reports and provide recommendations thereon. Manage, monitor,
and evaluate the functioning of CDW programme in the province. Manage the
broad recruitment standards and implementation framework for the CDW
programme. Procure necessary human, financial, equipment and other
resources. Establish and maintain appropriate control mechanism. Ensure
principles of CDWP in Gauteng and policies are implemented within a structure
framework by both spheres of government and other relevant local governance
structures. Facilitate implementation of partnership framework within local
government to effect systematic operation of the CDW programmes. Ensure
increasing response to community needs and effective implementation of
development initiatives emanated from CDW operations. Manage the
development of a memorandum of understanding between stakeholders
(municipalities, government departments and local governance structures) and
88
the DCOG. Manage the implementation of the CDWP in line with National,
Provincial and Local Government access strategies. Ensure effective linkage
of citizens to government programmes, projects, and services. Manage the
alignment of the CDWP with other government programmes i.e. Public
Participation, LED and GCIS. Manage the implementation of the CDW
Information Management System. Manage the provision of support to mobile
platforms for CDW’s. Manage the process of the provision of CDW resources
in close proximity to community clustering areas. Develop realistic and cost-
effective operational deliverables and milestones to meet deadlines. Manage
the compilation and the implementation of strategic business plan and
operational plans. Manage HR related matters and budget.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/98 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL GOVERNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION (POLICY
AND RESEARCH) REF NO: REFS/023226
Directorate: Municipal Governance and Administration
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF level 7 qualification in Public Administration/ Politics/ Public
Policy and Governance/ Policy Studies as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority or related studies. Coupled with 5 years of experience
at a middle/senior managerial level in Municipal Administration/Policy and
Research environment. Furthermore, the recommended candidate will be
required to produce his/her SMS Pre-entry certificate as offered by the National
School of Governance (NSG) prior to the appointment being made.
Competencies: Demonstrate knowledge of policy analysis, formulation, and
research, analytical and problem-solving, communication (written and verbal).
Strong research, strategic, leadership, IGR, and management skills. Financial
management skills. Programme and project management skills. People
management and empowerment compete. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate municipal administration, governance, and research
functions effectively and efficiently within the department. Policy and Research:
Develop a policy and research agenda for the department and create an
implementation plan for all policy and research-related matters, including the
review of local government policies, regulations, frameworks, and legislation.
Project manage policy and research initiatives for the department on topical
issues in local government. Municipal Administration and Governance:
Manage and support municipal establishment processes pre- and post-local
government elections. Support municipal corporate services to ensure good
governance. Manage provincial interventions in local government. Coordinate
the support of council oversight and accountability systems. Support municipal
administrative compliance as outlined in the local government legislative
framework. Support integrity management initiatives in municipalities in line
with the Local Government Anti-Corruption Strategy and conduct investigations
in accordance with Section 106. Manage the Budget of the Directorate.
Manage the skills development plan of the Directorate. Manage the PMDS of
the Directorate. Manage the audit findings and queries of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/99 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR (OFFICE MANAGER): OFFICE OF THE HOD REF NO:
REFS/023229
Directorate: Executive Support
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF7 in Public Administration/Administration, Office Management,
or relevant qualification; Coupled with a minimum of 3 to 5 years of
administration experience in the public sector environment. Competencies: In-
depth knowledge of government legislative frameworks such as the PFMA,
Public Service Act, Treasury Regulations and various Acts that regulate the
Public Service; Knowledge of Supply Chain Management, corporate services
and financial and asset management procedures and processes in the public
sector; Good working knowledge of the Ministerial Handbook; Excellent
organisations skills; Interpersonal Skills; Excellent Communication skills;
89
Computer skills; Analytical thinking skills; Research skills; Management skills;
Leadership skills; Strong administrative skills; Time management; Work
independently, effectively, and efficiently under pressure and a valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Coordinate cabinet submissions and confirmation of content matters with the
responsible manager in the Branch; Ensure that Executive Council decisions
are communicated to all relevant managers within the Department for
implementation or updates where required; Collate responses on decisions
received for HoD and MEC’s consideration and approval and submit to the
Cabinet Secretariat; Ensure that status updates on all Technical Subcommittee
and EXCO decisions are provided to the Cabinet Secretariat as per the
stipulated timeframes; Implement measures to ensure that all cabinet
submissions are submitted within a required timeframe and per the approved
cabinet programme; Ensures tracking system is in place to track all EXCO
decisions and decision of the internal meetings; Compile and submit quarterly
reports to the HOD on all EXCO resolutions; Manage the coordination of Senior
Management Meetings chaired by the HoD, (e.g. Quarterly Review Sessions,
Strategic Planning Sessions, Local Government Workstream, Regional
Conveners Meeting, Regional Teams Meetings, Bilateral Meetings with Sector
Departments and Bilateral Meetings with municipalities and SMT); Manage
workshops & functions within the set timeframes; Minute taking & recording of
meetings; Distribute packs this includes agenda, minutes, and Action List of
previous meeting as well as summarized content reports as requested by the
HOD; Follow up on resolutions & close off resolutions with appropriate reports
also ensuring that deadlines are met. Compile and submit quarterly reports to
the HOD on all governance structures resolutions; Track and close off
resolutions emanating from National Structures such as MINMEC and others;
Manage the recruitment and selection of staff for the Office of the HOD;
Manage leave of personnel; Manage, coach and supervise staff; Coordinate
financial disclosures pertaining to top management; Manage Performance
Management and Development System (PMDS); Implement Online PMDS for
the Heads of Department; Coordinate the Performance Agreements for Senior
Managers reporting to the Head of Department; Identify training needs.
Compile and manage the indicative training programme; Manage own
development and training; Compile portfolio of evidence, if required; Compile
monthly training reports; Ensure leave co-ordination is done effectively;
Provide general administrative duties to director executive support and the
HOD; conduct regular staff meetings; Manage the quality control of
documents/submissions/referrals received in the Office of the HOD; Manage
the implementation of an effective and efficient Document Management system
for proper execution and coordination of activities in the office of the HOD;
Quality check documents before submission to the HOD; Undertake policy or
line function tasks as required: Execute research, analyze information and
compile complex documents for the HOD; Source information and compile
comprehensive documents for the HOD with regard to issues emanating from
meetings such as HOD’s Forum, MINMEC etc; Compile memoranda as
required; Scrutinize submissions/reports, make notes and recommendations to
present to the HOD; Draft responses for submission to internal and external
stakeholders; Co-ordinate, follow-up, and compile reports of a transverse
nature for the HOD and advise/sensitize the HOD on reports to be submitted
(for example by Provincial Departments, Municipalities, Components etc.); and
Compile presentations and speeches for the HOD; Liaise with stakeholders to
ensure integration of programmes; Scrutinize documents to determine
actions/information/documents required; Collect and compile information for
the HOD with regard to issues that needs to be discussed; Record
minutes/resolutions and communicate/disseminate to relevant role-players,
follow-up on progress made, prepare briefing notes as well as other
documentation; Compile the agenda of meetings chaired by the HOD and
ensure circulation of accompanying memoranda; and Co-ordinate high level
meetings including overseeing the logistics, transport arrangements and take
charge of invitations and RSVP functions etc; Provide support to the Head of
Department: Scrutinize documents to determine actions/ information/
documents required; Collect and compile information for the Heads of
Department or Branches at National level with regard to issues that needs to
be discussed; Record minutes/ decisions and communicate/disseminate to
relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made, prepare briefing notes as
well as other documentation; Compile the agenda of meetings chaired by the
90
Heads of Department or Branches at National level and ensure circulation of
accompanying memoranda; Co-ordinate high level meetings including
overseeing the logistics, transport arrangements and take charge of invitations
and RSVP functions etc.; Manage general support services in the office of the
Heads of Department: Set up and maintain systems in the Office that will
ensure efficiency in the office; Establish, implement and maintain effective
processes/ procedures for information and documents flow to and from the
Office; Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the Office; and Manage
the engagements of the Heads of Department or Branches at National level;
Manage the resources of the Heads of Department: Determine and collate
information with regard to the budget needs of the Office; Keep record of
expenditure commitments, monitor expenditure and alert the DG with regard
to possible over- and under spending; Identify the need to move funds between
items compile submissions for this purpose; Monitor and evaluate the
performance of the Staff in the Office; and Manage the human resource
aspects related to the staff in the Office including the leave register, telephone
accounts etc.; Oversee responses drafted by the Personal Assistant on
enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023230
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF level 6/7 qualification in Supply Chain Management / Logistics
or relevant qualification. Coupled by a minimum of 3 years’ experience in Asset
Management environment. Competencies: Analytical Skills, Project
Management Skills, Report writing skills, Communication Skills, Problem
solving skill, Conflict management skills, Interpersonal Skills, Planning and
Organizing skills, Leadership Skills, Coordination Skills, Facilitation Skills, and
Analytical Skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Management of assets acquisition: Implement and monitor acquisition,
maintenance and disposal plans for asses, effectively implement the Asset
Management Strategy within the Department. Monitor asset management
resources allocated to the asset management function, promote, and obtain
buy-in from internal and external stakeholders in the Department, ensure
effective integration and working procedures between the asset management
function and Supply Chain Management within the Department, ensure
effective management of assets in compliance to Asset Management Strategy
and requirements of the PFMA and advise management on new policies
regarding asset management matters. Management of assets register: Monitor
the updating, maintenance of asset register and the barcoding of new assets
and asset inventory list. Monitoring physical verification of assets: Monitor
physical verification of assets, monitor asset verification records for audit
purposes, monitor updating of asset register with the results of the physical
count and monitor the reconciliations on the asset register and the physical
count. Monitoring the movement of assets: Monitor compliance for movement
of assets, monitor the compilation and submission of reports on the movement
of assets, monitor the updating of assets identified by movements of assets
and responsible for all Loss Control activities within the department and
constant engagement with securities management. Financial reporting of
assets: Monitor the monthly reconciliations of assets and monitor the proper
accounting of assets to the quarterly IFS and AFS. Management of staff:
Monitor staff performance and development plans, monitor staff leave plans,
monitor staff disciplinary and grievance matters and allocate and distribute
functions to staff.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/101 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MR-5) REF NO: REFS/023228
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R464 634 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus NQF7 in LLB or as otherwise determined by the Minister for Justice
and Constitutional Development, coupled with at least 8 years’ appropriate post
qualification legal experience. Competences: Knowledge of local government
91
law and related legislation; Ability to provide legal advice and opinions local
government law and related legislation; Ability to draft properly composed legal
documents; Ability to ensure 100% instructions to the State Attorney on matters
affecting the MEC, the HoD and the Department; Ability to provide a legal brief
once a quarter on matters of local government law and related issues; Ability
to update the Department's Human Resource Delegations under the Public
Service Act and the update of the Department's policies as and when required
by client directorates.
DUTIES : Manage litigation on behalf of the MEC, the HoD and the Department; Conduct,
analyse, interpret, advise on research that will provide information and case
law relevant to a legal matter at hand; Present and advise on motivation/
proposals on how the specific case should be approached to obtain a
desirable/ justifiable outcome / result; Draft legal documents and advise on the
drafting of legal documents that provide clear motivation / justification for a
particular position pertaining to the case, also proposing the approach to be
followed to ensure success in this regard; Successfully conduct a consultation
in order to determine a client Unit’s goals and objectives; Advise a client Unit
on possible courses of action during the consultation process, in relation to
legal entitlements and client’s instructions; Document consultation and all
advice given during legal consultation in writing; Provide advice and guidance
to lower level production employees on advanced consultation techniques to
address more sensitive or complicated issues as well as guide employees on
the advice that should be rendered to the client. Examine the instruction
received from client to determine the legal question(s) to be addressed;
Consult with client to obtain further clarity, if necessary; Source necessary legal
tools; Conduct the necessary research regarding the legal issue(s) to be
addressed; Draft the Opinion; If necessary, consult the client; Finalise and
submit the opinion to Supervisor for vetting; Obtain instructions from client as
to the nature of the document to be drafted; Consult with client to obtain further
information, if necessary; Conduct research and source the relevant resource
tools and information; Draft the legal document and submit to client; If
necessary, further consultations with client and other parties; Finalise the
document and submit to Supervisor for vetting; Receive the document for legal
review from client, along with instructions; Consult with client to obtain further
information, if necessary; Conduct research and source the relevant resource
tools and information; Scrutinize the document, in order to ensure that it
complies with all relevant legal requirements; If necessary, consult with client
and other parties to provide legal clarity and assist in finalizing the document
which has been reviewed; Prepare comments regarding the document and
submit to Supervisor for vetting; Receive summons or notice of motion from
the State Attorney’s Office; Scrutinize the court papers received; Consult with
State Attorney’s Office, if necessary; Consult with relevant client unit to which
the matter relates; Prepare brief for the HOD/ MEC on necessary course of
action to be undertaken; Submit brief to Supervisor for vetting; Brief the State
Attorney on course of action to take, either to oppose or not to oppose; Receive
instructions from relevant client unit to determine the merits of the
contemplated action; Consult with the client unit and obtain other relevant
information to prepare opinion regarding whether there are reasonable
prospects of success; Provide advice to the HOD/MEC on the contemplated
action and submit to Supervisor for vetting; If there are reasonable prospects
of success, then the HOD/MEC will provide instructions to institute the action;
Continue with similar steps as outlined above in respect of litigation against the
Department, with appropriate modifications for the context; Conduct research
on topical issue; Prepare briefing and submit to Supervisor for vetting; Circulate
the legal briefing to colleagues in the Department; Provide legal library services
in the event where the Law Librarian is absent or not available.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
POST 30/102 : ADMIN CLERK: PURCHASING AND STORES REF NO: REFS/023231
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric coupled with a minimum of 1 - 2-years’ experience in Asset Management
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, SAP, and Supply Chain Management
legislation. Sound knowledge and understanding of basic accounting
92
principles. Experience in SRM and SAP. Computer skills and knowledge
especially Word and Excel. Analytical and numeric skills. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics, handle routine enquiries, make photocopies, and receive or send
facsimiles, distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required,
keep and maintain the filing system for the component, type letters and/or other
correspondence when required, keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
document register of the component. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items, stock control of
office stationery, keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component: Maintain a leave register for the component, keep and maintain
personnel records in the component, keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component, arrange travelling and accommodation. Provide
financial administration support services in the component: Capture and
update expenditure in component, check correctness of subsistence and travel
claims of officials and submit to manager for approval, handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Caiphus Nkuna/ Andy Ndaba at 071 474 7078/51
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Infrastructure Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is
intended to promote representivity through the filling of these posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below position, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. Only online applications will be considered and for
general enquiries please contact Human Resource on 076 521 4118.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, People with Disabilities
are encouraged to apply. Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83
application for employment form issued by the Minister for the Public Service
and Administration in line with the Regulation 10 of the Public Service
Regulations, 2016, All fields in the New Z83 form, must be completed and
signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be
attached. The New Z83 form, obtainable from the GPG Professional Job
Centre website, any Public Service Department or the DPSA website
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, all other documents are submitted by shortlisted
candidates). Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified
copies of qualifications not older than six (06) months, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job). It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in
the Public Service through the filling of this post and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/103 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: POLICY REF NO: REFS/023213
Directorate: Policy and Legislation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum. The package includes a basic salary (70% of package),
and a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules.
Which includes state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund (13% of basic salary). The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
93
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 or 7 in Social Sciences/Development Studies/Information
Management. A minimum 3-5 years middle management/ supervisory
experience. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations, PFMA and Treasury Regulation, DID Policies and
procedures, Infrastructure. Delivery Management System, Research
Methodologies, Knowledge Management, Construction Industry Development
Board Act of 2000 and Regulations, National Building Standards Act of 1977
and Regulations, Council for Built Environment Act of 2000. Project
Management. People Management. Financial Management. Conflict
Management. Skills: Research, Analytical, Communication, Reporting writing,
Problem solving, Facilitation. Planning and organizing, Leadership,
Negotiation, Influencing. Attributes: Responsive, Credible, Quantity-
orientated, Creative, Pro- active, Professional, Presentation. Decisive,
Credible, Motivating.
DUTIES : Manage the development of sustainable policies through the provision of
administrative, technical and logistical support. Manage undertaking general
and specific literature reviews on provincial, best national and international
practices regarding policy models. Manage the provision of secretariat services
to the Departmental. Policy Committee and Advisory Committee. Mange the
establishment of networks and stakeholders. Manage consultative interactions
with stakeholders and partners on policies. Manage the development and
maintenance of policy stakeholders and partners databases. Manage
implementation of workshops and work sessions in line with the Department to
ensure awareness and understanding of policies, associated strategies and
guidelines. Manage dissemination of consolidated policies to standing
committee meetings for inputs. Manage policy queries and route them
appropriately. Manage liaison with provincial spheres of government in
developing related policies in order to ensure strategic alignment with National
and Provincial policies. Manage interpretations of applicable laws, strategic, as
well as political party determinations. Manage evaluation and review of DID
policies and align them with Departmental objectives. Sign performance
agreements for subordinates based on approved Job Descriptions, Strategic
and Annual Performance Plans of the Department. Manage subordinates and
maintain discipline. Manage training and development of subordinates
according to agreed training interventions. Manage the provision of equipment
required by subordinates for achievement of outputs in their respective Job
Descriptions. Provide regular verbal and written feedback [aligned to quarterly
performance assessments] to subordinates on performance. Mentor and
coach subordinates. Determine the Human Resources needs for subordinates
in consultation with Corporate Services. Develop and update the service
delivery and work plan for subordinates. Provide sufficient guidance to
subordinates in terms of the service delivery plan, work plans, core business
roles and priorities of the Department through quarterly subordinate meetings.
Manage skills transfer between subordinates and outside technical assistants
and/or consultants. Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to
control work performance including quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 30/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO:
REFS/023205
Directorate: Labour Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Human Resources
Management / Labour Law / Labour Relations qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 Years’ experience in Collective bargaining of which 2
years must be at supervisory level. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and procedures related to
labour relations. Structure and functioning of the Department. Constitution of
the RSA, Public Service Act and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act Labour Relations Act Skills: Interpersonal and
diplomacy skills. General administration and organizational skills. Ability to
undertake basic research/gather information. Computer literacy. Financial
administration. Problem solving skills. Motivational skills. Presentation skills
and Communication. Attributes: must be Creative. Resourceful. Ability to
94
communicate at all levels. Trustworthy. Hard-working Self-motivated and ability
to work independently.
DUTIES : Monitor all collective bargaining activities in the Department. Provide labour
relations advice and technical support to line managers, regional offices and
institutions Establish consultative structures in all the Departmental Regions
Participate and monitor regional consultative structures. Conduct impact
analysis of labour relations processes and policies in the Department. Monitor
the implementation of collective agreements and resolutions. Conduct labour
relations training and capacity building to line managers and staff. Facilitate
Labour Relations and Regional Managers meetings. Intervene and resolve
conflict and advice appropriately Facilitate the grievance resolution processes.
Sign performance agreements for subordinates based on approved Job
Descriptions, Strategic and Annual Performance Plans of the Department.
Manage subordinates and maintain discipline. Manage training and
development of subordinates according to agreed training interventions.
Manage the provision of equipment required by subordinates for achievement
of outputs in their respective Job Descriptions. Provide regular verbal and
written feedback [aligned to quarterly performance assessments] to
subordinates on performance. Mentor and coach subordinates. Determine the
Human Resources needs for subordinates in consultation with Corporate
Services. Develop and update the service delivery and work plan for
subordinates. Provide sufficient guidance to subordinates in terms of the
service delivery plan, work plans, core business roles and priorities of the
Department through quarterly subordinate meetings. Manage skills transfer
between subordinates and outside technical assistants and/or consultants.
Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to control work
performance including quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 30/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023203
Directorate Labour Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Human Resources
Management / Labour Law / Labour Relations qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 Years’ experience in Case Management of which 2
years must be at supervisory level. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Knowledge of standards, practices, processes, and procedures related to
labour relations. Structure and functioning of the Department. Constitution of
the RSA, Public Service Act and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act Labour Relations Act. Skills: Basic numeracy.
Interpersonal and diplomacy skills. General administration and organizational
skills. Ability to undertake basic research/gather information. Computer literacy.
Financial administration. Problem solving skills. Motivational skills.
Presentation skills. Communication Report writing abilities. Attributes: must be
Creative. Resourceful. Ability to communicate at all levels. Trustworthy Hard-
working Self-motivated. and ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor all cases in the Department. Monitor the implementation
of collective agreements and resolutions. Provide verbal and written advice on
grievances Facilitate and co-ordinate the disciplinary processes Participate
and monitor regional consultative structures. Conduct impact analysis of labour
relations processes and policies in the Department. Establish consultative
structures in all the Departmental Regions. Investigate misconduct and
represent the employer in the disciplinary enquiries (formal and less formal)
Draft and acknowledge of receipt. Facilitate LR and Regional Managers
meetings. Conduct labour relations training and capacity building to line
managers and staff. Liaise with HR on LR issues Sign performance
agreements for subordinates based on approved Job Descriptions, Strategic
and Annual Performance Plans of the Department. Manage subordinates and
maintain discipline. Manage training and development of subordinates
according to agreed training interventions. Manage the provision of equipment
required by subordinates for achievement of outputs in their respective Job
Descriptions. Provide regular verbal and written feedback [aligned to quarterly
performance assessments] to subordinates on performance. Mentor and
coach subordinates. Determine the Human Resources needs for subordinates
in consultation with Corporate Services. Develop and update the service
95
delivery and work plan for subordinates. Provide sufficient guidance to
subordinates in terms of the service delivery plan, work plans, core business
roles and priorities of the Department through quarterly subordinate meetings.
Manage skills transfer between subordinates and outside technical assistants
and/or consultants. Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to
control work performance including quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 30/106 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATION OFFICER: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF
NO: REFS/023207
Directorate Labour Relations
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Human Resources
Management / Labour Law / Labour Relations qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 2-3 Years’ experience in Labour Relations. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and
procedures related to labour relations. Structure and functioning of the
Department. Constitution of the RSA, Public Service Act and Regulations.
Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act Labour Relations
Act. Skills: Basic numeracy, Interpersonal and diplomacy skills. General
administration and organizational skills. Ability to undertake basic
research/gather information. Computer literacy. Financial administration.
Problem solving skills. Motivational skills. Presentation skills and
Communication. Attributes: must be Creative. Resourceful, ability to
communicate at all levels, trustworthy, hard-working Self-motivated and ability
to work independently.
DUTIES : Assist in the Implementation and maintenance of policies, procedures related
to labour relations. Ensure compliance of Human Resources policies and
practices with labour law and collective agreements Facilitate training and
awareness on employee/labour relations; promote sound labour relations,
equity and diversity. Advise management and staff on issues related to labour
relations Liaise and interact with related internal and external stakeholders
Advise and assist management and staff on dispute resolution procedures and
multi-lateral forums Act as designated officer to resolve grievances Act as
departmental representative in conciliations, mediations and arbitrations Sign
performance agreements for subordinates based on approved Job
Descriptions, Strategic and Annual Performance Plans of the Department.
Manage subordinates and maintain discipline. Manage training and
development of subordinates according to agreed training interventions.
Manage the provision of equipment required by subordinates for achievement
of outputs in their respective Job Descriptions. Provide regular verbal and
written feedback [aligned to quarterly performance assessments] to
subordinates on performance. Mentor and coach subordinates. Determine the
Human Resources needs for subordinates in consultation with Corporate
Services. Develop and update the service delivery and work plan for
subordinates. Provide sufficient guidance to subordinates in terms of the
service delivery plan, work plans, core business roles and priorities of the
Department through quarterly subordinate meetings. Manage skills transfer
between subordinates and outside technical assistants and/or consultants.
Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to control work
performance including quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 30/107 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
SERVICE DELIVERY REF NO: REFS/023214 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Strategic Planning and Service Delivery)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Public Management/
Social Sciences/ Business Administration as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of 2-3 years’ of experience. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: knowledge
of GPG and DID policies and procedures. Legislation and Public Service
Regulations. Understanding of expectations of customers. Management
information knowledge. Knowledge of conducting research and benchmarking
96
Skills: Communication, Report Writing, Analytical, Research, Communication.
Attributes: Self-Driven, Innovative, Team player, Adaptable, Self-Driven.
DUTIES : Provide support on the development of the Departmental Strategy and Annual
Performance Plans. Provide logistical support for the convening of
Departmental Strategic Planning and Annual Performance Plan sessions.
Consolidate branch inputs for the development of the Departmental Strategic
Plan. Provide support in the development and consolidation of the
Departmental Operational Plan. Coordinate the submission and analysis of
quarterly reports, annual reports and budget vote documents. Analyse
organisational performance and provide strategic inputs. Coordinate the
preparation of service standards and Service Delivery Improvement Plans.
Measure customer satisfaction and report findings. Coordinate inputs into the
Service Delivery Improvement Plans and Programmes. Provide support with
Batho Pele Change engagement interventions as per DPSA guidelines.
Coordinate and facilitate implementation of the Departmental OMF
Deliverables. Provide document management services. Compile draft
submissions and other correspondences for the unit. Provide logistical support
services for meetings, workshops and seminars. assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090
POST 30/108 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO:
REFS/023206
Directorate Labour Relations
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Human Resources
Management / Labour Law / Labour Relations qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in the Labour Relations
environment. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of standards,
practices, processes and procedures related to labour relations. Structure and
functioning of the Department. Constitution of the RSA, Public Service Act and
Regulations Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act and
Labour Relations Act. Skills: Basic numeracy. Interpersonal and diplomacy
skills. General administration and organizational skills. Ability to undertake
basic research/gather information. Computer literacy. Financial administration.
Problem solving skills. Motivational skills. Presentation skills. Communication
Report writing abilities. Attributes: must be Creative. Resourceful. Ability to
communicate at all levels. Trustworthy Hard-working Self-motivated. and ability
to work independently.
DUTIES : Labour Forum Secretariat Services and Meeting Coordination. Compile
monthly expenditure & prepare cash flows. Procurement of goods and
services. Securing venues for Labour Forum meetings/ trainings Coordination
of training in the Directorate. Compilation of asset register. Receiving and
registering cases. Preparing Acknowledgement letters Compile Labour
Relations statistical information as and when required. Draft monthly, quarterly
and annual LR reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 30/109 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: PUBLICATIONS REF NO: REFS/023212
Directorate: Internal Communications
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF Level 6 or 7 in Graphic Design, Graphic
arts/Communications/Journalism. A minimum of 1- 2 years relevant
experience. Shortlisted candidates will undergo written graphic design test.
Competencies: Graphic design concepts and layout techniques. Principles,
tools, techniques and software pertaining to multi-media design and general
office operation. Advanced level computer hardware operation and use.
Advanced level computerized graphic programs including Adobe InDesign.
Broadcast and computerized programs used to create multi-media designs.
Reproduction techniques used to photograph, print, and copy displays or
media. GPG and DID policies and procedures. Legislation and Public Service
Regulations. Publications Management. Skills: Graphic Design,
Communication, Report writing, Analytical, and Research. Analyse requests,
recommend, and create work products. Maintain confidentiality of
97
departmental information that may be personal and sensitive in nature.
Organize and prioritize a high volume of work using multi-tasking techniques.
Safely use computer software programs and graphic art tools and equipment
to produce work products. Apply all types of media to produce a wide variety
of graphic artwork and graphics for visual communications. Assess the
customer’s immediate needs and ensure customer’s receipt of needed
services through personal service or making appropriate referral. Exercise
appropriate judgment in answering questions and releasing information;
analyse and project consequences of decisions and/or recommendations.
Attributes- Self-Driven, Innovative, Team player, Adaptable.
DUTIES : Formulate concepts and implement multi-media designs. Confer with project
leaders regarding projects, background information, objectives, visual design
approaches, styles, printers, techniques and other production factors. Brief and
manage service providers. Determine size and arrangement of materials based
upon available spaces, layout principles and aesthetic concepts. Research,
select and secure suitable illustrative or photographic materials for developing
multi-media concepts. Photography and the management of photographic
library. Coordinate schedules for the implementation of multi-media designs,
reports and other documents. Design and produce publications and artwork for
internal and external use. Provide multi-media designs for campaigns, annual
reports, covers, newsletters, magazines, books, brochures, displays, social
media and the intranet. Conceptualise, design and edit motion artwork.
Manage software licences, hardware and requisite procurement. Ensure that
the Departmental Corporate Identity is implemented correctly on all platforms.
Monthly, quarterly and annual reporting. Conduct benchmarking exercises to
determine best practices on publications management procedures. Provide
inputs to the development of the strategy. Update the strategy in line with
changes and new developments. Provide creative conceptualisation, layout,
design and production of various corporate publications, including weekly
newsletters, logos and associated collateral. Produce new and unique ideas to
represent specific briefs. Apply corporate identity across all branding. Design
web and user interfaces, site maps and icons. Provide print ready designs.
Provide photography services. Assist in the compilation of monthly, quarterly
and annual reports linked to M&E frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/076 521 4118
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
It is the department’s intention to promote equity by achieving all numeric targets as contained in the
Department`s Employment Equity Plan by targeting the required race/gender for appointment. To
promote equity, females and males of all races are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Qualifying applicants should submit their applications online on the GPG
Professional Job Centre website, (www.gautengonline.gov.za) and on
Recruitment.Premier@gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : The completed signed new Z83 must be accompanied by a detailed Curriculum
Vitae (CV) only and at least three (3) contactable referees quoting the relevant
reference number. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Gauteng Office of the Premier reserve the right to utilise practical exercise /
test for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment process (candidates who
are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). Gauteng Office of the Premier (OoP) reserves the
right to cancel the filling / not fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage
of the recruitment process. We thank all applicants for their interest. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection committee will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment. The competency assessment
will be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA
SMS competency assessment tools. The successful candidate will be required
to conclude an annual perform agreement within three (3) months upon
commencement of duty. The appointment of the successful candidate is
subject to the issuing of a positive security clearance at the level of Top Secret
98
by the State Security Agency. The incumbent will be required to disclose her/his
financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations. NB.
Requirement for all SMS posts is the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, offered by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme
Prospective candidates will not be employed without this certificate.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/110 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023039
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public
Administration Management, Strategic Management, Human Resource
Management, any related fields and the Nyukela Certificate for entry into
Senior Management Service (SMS) from the National School of Government.
A higher qualification of NQF Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of
experience at a senior managerial level in a corporate services environment.
Competencies: Demonstrable advanced strategic leadership, planning and
organizing skills; analytical, conceptual, and writing skills; strong leadership,
people management, conflict resolution and interpersonal skills. Good
programme and project management; stakeholder management;
communication, public speaking and presentation skills. Excellent financial,
human resource management skills. Customer management, Problem solving,
Analytical, Good Communication and Policy development, analysis and
implementation skills. Ability to work under pressure, in a team and
independently as well as cope with a high workload. S/he must be assertive,
innovative and creative. Excellent co-ordination, networking, negotiation,
presentation and multi-tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the implementation of the
Human Capital Management Strategy and provide corporate support services
to management and staff. The role will include the following functions: Serve
as Chief Negotiator for the Office of the Premier and thirteen provincial
government departments. Manage corporate services such as Internal Human
Resources Management, Information and Communication Technology and
Security and Risk Management Services. Manage the provision of internal
communication and events management services such as staff meetings and
human resources events. Provide high level management advice to Executive
Management to ensure sound decision making and forward planning.
Implement and modernise human resource information and knowledge
management systems. Manage and facilitate organisational development
matters within the Department. Ensure sound systems of labour relations to
ensure labour peace and social justice. Provide human resource research and
product development. Coordinate organisational development interventions,
job evaluation and change management. Manage employee Health and
Wellness and HR special programmes. Sound stakeholder relationships
between management and organised labour. Deal with labour disputes and
Implement strategies to prevent labour conflicts. Provide leadership on
workplace transformation, OD, and reform programmes, and ensuring
compliance with the regulatory framework. Management of the facilities of the
Office of the Premier, development of IT infrastructure and compliance with
occupational health and safety standards. Monitor the implementation of
minimum information security standards and vetting of employees and provide
security technical support services. Develop policies and strategies in relation
to Human Resources Management, Information Technology and Security
Services. Represent the Office of the Premier at various intergovernmental
forums internally and provincially. Develop the Annual Performance Plan and
Budget of the Chief Directorate. Provide reports to Executive Management
Team, Broad Management Team and any other governance structures from
time to time. Lead special organisational projects. Management the budget and
human resources of the Chief Directorate in an efficient and effective manner.
99
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
POST 30/111 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL FORENSIC AUDITS REF NO:
REFS/023038
Branch: Institutional Development Support and Integrity Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 7 qualification in the disciplines of Law (BA Law; B juris, BCom
Law; BProc LLB) or Accounting (A Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting or BTech
Finance & Accounting) or Forensic Auditing and Nyukela Certificate for entry
into Senior Management Service (SMS) from the National School of
Government. A higher qualification of NQF Level 8, will be an added
advantage. 5 years of experience at a senior managerial level and Seven (7)
or more years of experience in the Forensic investigations or law enforcement
specialising in commercial crimes. Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE)
qualification will be an added advantage. Good problem-solving, decision-
making skills, computer literacy, communication skills, report writing kills, good
inter-personal relations skills, planning, organising, analytical skills and project
planning skills. Competencies: Proven ability to operationalise and ensure
compliance with legislation and policy development. Demonstrable experience
in forensic investigations and reporting. Knowledge and understanding of
government priorities. Insight into Government’s Outcomes Based Approach,
including performance monitoring and evaluation. Strategic leadership, change
management and project management. Ability to communicate eloquently,
compliance with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and financial
regulatory frameworks underpinning good governance in South Africa.
Excellent co-ordination, communication, networking, negotiation, corporate
governance and multi-tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long and irregular hours. Strategically engage with Auditors
and provide appropriate and timely responses to audit queries.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and oversight into the implementation of fraud
prevention in the GPG departments. Manage and oversee the implementation
of all the forensic investigations and Provincial forensic investigation
procurement in the GPG departments and entities. Review, manage, and
provide oversight on the implementation of the Provincial Forensic
Investigation Methodology and Standard Operating Procedures. Manage,
review and maintain the Anti-Corruption strategy for all GPG departments.
Provide leadership on the administration of NACH (National Anti-Corruption
Hotlines) for all GPG departments. Develop written protocols and guidelines
on forensic investigation methodology and ensure adherence of such
guidelines and investigation reporting timelines. Review investigation reports
and related documentation and provide assurance that the investigations
conducted meet the required standards. Ensure that lessons learned from
investigations are incorporated into the GPG policies and procedures and are
shared widely within GPG. Support Public Service Commission (PSC) in
developing and maintaining mechanism for reporting potential fraud and
corruption, including hotline, and the necessary procedures to evaluate and
investigate incoming reports of alleged fraud and corruption. Manage and
provide comprehensive ICT analytical abilities in GPG database. Ensure
development of work plans and the establishment of priorities for the Provincial
Forensic Audit function. Supervise and monitor the work of investigative teams
and of contracted specialists to ensure that outputs meet the required quality
standards and are delivered according to schedule. Provide reports
periodically in terms of the operational requirements in the department and
including to oversight bodies such as Audit Committee. Build relationships with
law enforcement bodies and ensure proper reporting of violations or potential
violations as appropriate and as required. Build relationship within GPG with
all stakeholders and ensure that there is periodic stakeholder engagement and
provisioning of support as it relates to forensic investigations undertaken.
Conduct regular training to develop investigation capacity within Forensic
Investigation unit. Manage the human and financial resource of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
100
POST 30/112 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL HUMAN RESOURCE AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: REFS/023040
Branch: Institutional Development Support & Integrity Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 7 qualification in Human Resource Management or Social
Sciences or Public Administration, Public / Business Management or Industrial
Psychology and Nyukela Certificate for entry into Senior Management Service
(SMS) from the National School of Government. A higher qualification of NQF
Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of experience at a senior
managerial level and experience in the development and review of strategies,
policies and plans in the HR environment. Advanced knowledge of strategy
development, strategy management, strategy monitoring and review
processes, policy analysis, policy development and policy implementation and
review processes .and long hours. Competencies: Demonstrable advanced
strategic capability and leadership; analytical, conceptual, and writing skills;
strong leadership, people management and empowerment, problem solving
and interpersonal skills; good programme and project management; good
human resource management and other management skills. Client orientation
and customer focus, Problem solving, Analytical and Good Communication.
Competency in policy development. Knowledge of legislative framework and
government procedures on public finance, human resources management,
supply chain management and latest advances in public management theory
and practice. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Ensure the facilitation of the development and implementation of credible HR
Plans and Talent Management Strategies that are aligned to the strategic plans
and service delivery requirements of the Gauteng Provincial Government
(GPG) Departments. Oversee and ensure development and implementation of
GPG HRM & D policies to enable service delivery. Manage and facilitate the
development of strategic plans and annual performance plans. Monitor the
implementation of transversal framework, policies and plans. Manage the
coordination of HR, OD, OMF, Labour Relations, EHWP reporting. Ensure
improvement in the effectiveness of HRM & D practices and processes in GPG
in the areas of HRD, PMDS, Talent Management, functional fora, Provincial
HRM & D Forum, technical advice and targeted interventions and support.
Oversee the facilitation, coordination and monitoring of public service capacity
building programmes in the province through the departmental Workplace
Skills Plan (WSP) and in line with the Departmental strategic plan and the
Provincial Development Plan (PDP), Strategic Skills and special projects.
Manage recruitment, selection and appointments, transfers and placements of
HODs including all conditions of employment. Monitor the implementation of
provincial human resource management, strategies and plans to ensure
standardization and compliance across departments. Manage PMDS for GPG
levels 13-16 and HOD PMDS. Oversee the coordination and the facilitation of
Organisational Design and Job Evaluation in the GPG Departments.
Coordinate consultation process with DPSA on Organisational structure and
job evaluation. Oversee the coordination and the facilitation of collective
bargaining in GPG Departments. Manage GPG representation and
participation in collective bargaining structures nationally (PSCBC &
GPSSBC). Oversee the coordination and the facilitation of Employee Health
and Wellness Programmes in the GPG Departments. Manage the Coordination
and the facilitation of Change Management and Diversity Management.
Oversee the coordination of the implementation of transformation programmes
through change interventions to improve the culture and quality of the public
services. Manage the financial and human resources of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
POST 30/113 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/023042
Component: Corporate Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 7 qualification in Human Resource Management, Public
Administration/ Management, Administration, Industrial and Organisational
Psychology and Nyukela Certificate for entry into Senior Management Service
101
(SMS) from the National School of Government. A higher qualification of NQF
Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of experience at the middle /
senior managerial level in Human Resource Management environment.
Competencies: Extensive Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service
Act., Public Service Regulations, relevant DPSA Prescripts and all the related
legislation. Strategic leadership capability. Knowledge in Financial, project and
change management. Proven track record in managing HR functions and
leading teams. Ability to think strategically and implement effective HR
solutions. Excellent planning, organizing, coordinating and analytical skills
coupled with strong interpersonal relationship skills. Communication,
networking, negotiation, presentation and multi-tasking skills are fundamental.
Competency in policy development. Ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : The position of Director: Internal Human Resources Management’s critical role
involves the comprehensive oversight and management of human resources
functions within the Office of the Premier, ensuring the efficient and effective
delivery of Human Resources services. Key Responsibilities: Strategic
Workforce Planning: Manage the development and implementation of the
Human Resource Plan and ensure the attraction and retention of top talent.
Recruitment and Selection: Oversee the recruitment process, aligning to the
Office of the Premier’s strategic objectives. Employee Training and
Development: Design and implement training programs to enhance employee
skills. Manage and facilitate the implementation of Human Resource
Development initiatives and implement career management strategies,
including succession planning, talent management, and career pathing.
Performance Management: Administer performance management systems,
providing guidance for employee performance improvement and ensuring
alignment with the Office of the Premier’s objectives. Employee Relations:
Address complex employee relations issues, including conflict resolution, and
facilitate the implementation of Labour Relations to promote labour peace.
Policy Development and Implementation: Manage the development and
implementation of HR polices, and ensure compliance with the relevant
legislation, HR Delegations, processes, and procedures. Organisational
Design and Development: Coordinate the development of organisational
structures that are aligned to the strategic goals of the Office of the Premier,
supports operational efficiency, clarify roles, reduce duplication, enhance
accountability, and foster innovation and continuous improvement. HR
Administration: Manage Human Resources Administration services. Employee
Health and Wellness: Oversee the provision of Employee Health and Wellness.
Transformation Management: Promote diversity in the Office of the Premier
through transformation programs. Management: Manage the strategic and
operational plans of the Directorate as well as the human and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Khanyisile Mafiri Tel No: (011) 355 6060
POST 30/114 : DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: REFS/023043
Branch: Institutional Development Support and Integrity Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7, Labour Relations and Nyukela Certificate for entry into Senior
Management Service (SMS) from the National School of Government. A higher
qualification of NQF Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of experience
at the middle / senior Managerial level in Employee Relations/ Collective
Bargaining and Management. Competencies: Ability to lead and manage a
team, develop strategies, and ensure alignment with organizational goals.
Strong verbal and written communication skills to effectively negotiate,
mediate, and resolve conflicts. In-depth understanding of labour laws,
regulations, and compliance requirements. Expertise in handling disputes and
grievances and fostering a positive work environment. Ability to analyse data,
identify trends, and make informed decisions. Strong ability to build
relationships and work collaboratively with various stakeholders. Capability to
develop long-term strategies for labour relations and workforce management.
High level of integrity and ethical judgment in handling sensitive issues.
DUTIES : The Director of Labour Relations plays a crucial role in managing and
overseeing labour relations activities within Office of the Premier. Key
Responsibilities: Develop and manage labour relations policies and strategies
102
within GPG. Manage and monitor collective bargaining structures and
processes. Manage and oversee discipline and dispute cases in line with the
legislative framework within GPG. Represent the Employer in facilitating labour
related judicial matters at labour court and other structures. Formulate and
execute strategies to maintain positive labour relations. Lead and participate in
negotiations with unions to establish fair and effective collective bargaining
agreements. Ensure that the GPG Departments adheres to labour laws,
regulations, and internal policies. Handle conflicts and grievances between
management and employees, fostering a harmonious work environment. Offer
support and advice to management on labour relations issues. Analyse labour
trends and their potential impact in the GPG. Create and deliver training
programs on labour relations. Track and improve employee satisfaction and
engagement levels in the GPG. Manage the Directorate resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
POST 30/115 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023062
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 in any of the following fields of study Accounting, CIMA, ACCA,
BCom Accounting, Supply Chain Management, Economics, Financial
Management, Business Administration and Nyukela Certificate for entry into
Senior Management Service (SMS) from the National School of Government.
A higher qualification of NQF Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of
experience at the middle / senior managerial level l relevant to the field of the
post. Competencies: Ability to lead and manage a team, develop strategies,
and ensure alignment with organizational goals. Strong verbal and written
communication skills. Proven knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA, BBBEE, Treasury
Regulations, and other relevant legislation. Strong leadership, analytical, and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the departmental Supply Chain Management strategy
aligned with legislative and policy frameworks. Manage procurement and
contract management processes to ensure compliance and value for money.
Oversee asset and inventory management, including the maintenance of a
fixed asset register. Ensure effective transport and logistics support services.
Lead the development and execution of the departmental demand
management strategy and plan. Oversee the demand and acquisition
processes, ensuring alignment with financial planning and departmental
needs. Establish and oversee the functioning of the Bid Specification
Committee (BSC), Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC), and Bid Adjudication
Committee (BAC). Provide strategic advice and support to the CFO and
executive leadership. Promote good governance, ethical conduct, and anti-
corruption measures within Supply Chain Management operations. Support
the implementation of procurement systems and controls to mitigate risks and
prevent irregular expenditure. Ensure compliance with PFMA, PPPFA, BBBEE,
Treasury Regulations, and other relevant legislation. Manage human and
financial resources within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za Only online applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified c5opies of
qualifications, identity document and valid driver’s license (where
driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) not older than six (06)
months. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
103
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful. In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, Females
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/116 : DRIVER / MESSANGER REF NO: REFS/023261
Directorate: Office of the Executive Authority
Re-advert, those who applied previously are encouraged to apply.
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIRMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent qualification with at least 1 year’s relevant experience.
A valid Driver`s License is essential. Ability to handle confidential information.
Good telephone etiquette. Interpersonal and communication skills (written and
Verbal). PDP will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium-sized vehicles to transport passengers and items (mail
and documents). Conduct routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects. complete all the prescribe records and logbooks with regards to
the vehicle and goods. Render clerical support/ messenger services in the
office. Collect and deliver documentation and related items in the Department.
Copy, package documents to be scanned, bind and fax documents. Delivery of
mail daily to various regions. Keep records of delivered Ensure that there is
proper tracking of documents. Perform other duties assigned by supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amy Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 7521/Petunia Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355
7175
POST 30/117 : CLEANER REF NO: REFS/023264
Branch: Corporate Services
Directorate: Auxiliary Service
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIRMENTS : ABET or equivalent qualification. No experience required. Good
communication skills (Verbal and written). An ability to work under pressure
and ability to work in a team. Knowledge of work procedures in respect of
working environment skills. Basic numeracy and good communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of cleaning services: Performing cleaning services of routine nature
by utilizing a variety of aids throughout the offices, corridors, elevators and
boardrooms. Keep the kitchen clean by making sure that the sink has no dishes
and utensils. Emptying, washing and cleaning of waste bins. Report broken
cleaning machines and equipment. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and
fresheners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 7521/ Petunia Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355
7175
POST 30/118 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: REFS/023257
Branch: Office of the HOD
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 1 or (Abet level 4 certificate or equivalent). No working experience
is required.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment. Apply hygiene and safety measures.
Serve refreshments to HOD and to HOD’s visitors. Maintain the stock register.
Ensure prior knowledge of the HOD’s meetings so that proper preparations are
made. Maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of
garbage disposal. Prepare food, snacks and beverages (water, tea, coffee,
104
milk, sugar and cold drinks). Set up and convey crockery, cutlery and
equipment to dining areas. Serve food and beverages. Responsible for food
supplies and report waste and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amy Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 7521 or Ms. Kgomotso Letsholo Tel No:
(011) 355 7367
105
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
(We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 30/119 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: G17/2025
Cluster: Information Technology: Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
Job Purpose: Develop and facilities the implementation of Integrated
Management Information Master Plan for the Department of Health to
adequately support the objectives of the Strategic and Service Transformation
Plans of the Department.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-Inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Information Technology; Plus
A minimum of five (5) years senior management experience in Information
Technology. Plus Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s licence (Code 08).
Computer literacy in Microsoft Software applications. NB: For the Pre-Entry
Certificate for SMS, any individual may register for the course and complete
such in anticipation of wishing to apply for a SMS post in future. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior
to the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: The incumbent of this
post will report to the Head of Department Health and will be responsible to
support the Head of Department and Senior Management through the
establishment of sound information Management Systems and in the efficient
and effective utilization of Information and Information Technology as strategic
resources to inform planning, monitoring, evaluation and decision making
processes. The ideal candidate must: Possess extensive knowledge and
expertise in the design and development of Management Information System.
possess knowledge of Computer Programming, Information Technology, Main
frame applications and Interfaces. Have the ability to operationalise
Management Information System imperatives of the Strategic and Annual
Performance Plans of the Department through innovative and highly complex
information system that is user friendly. Knowledge of information management
and prescript. Have the ability to capitalise on human potential and to develop
information management competencies at all organisational layers of the
Department with a view to improve reliability of data and the utilisation of data
for planning, monitoring and evaluation of programme and institutional
performance. Have advance project and Contract Management skills. Have
advance skills in the application of computer software packages (MS Office,
Excel and Powerpoint) Have excellent verbal communication and report writing
skills. NB//: The incumbent of this post will be required to possess the following
skills: Risk Management skills, Monitoring and Evaluation and Financial
Management skills.
DUTIES : Oversee the provisioning of fully compatible hardware and software solutions
for the Department inclusive of the management of the SLA with SITA and user
support services. Promote the utilisation of e-solutions in the department and
the development of IT skills within the department. Develop Information
Management Policies and maintain user and data security. Monitor and
evaluate on a continuous basis compliance with policy system standards and
norms. Represent the department at the GITO Council.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 3176
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
106
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Ms L Mthalane) Interested
applicants can visit the following website at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for
full posts details. “Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the
online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their
Z83 and CV directly to the following email address
HeadOffice.JobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za. NB//The subject of your e-mail
must be the post name that you are applying for”. Applicants may also visit any
one of our Designated Online Application Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly
staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application.
You can find the list of Designated Online Application Centre’s (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Application for Employment
form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated. Applications
received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required information
on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information
will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be accompanied by
a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with disabilities
should feel free to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. The appointments are
subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to
the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). Applicants:
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit
separate applications for each post that you apply for. Should you not be
contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/120 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR
Cluster: District Health Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : King Cetshwayo Health District Office Ref No: G18/2025
Umkhanyakude Health District Office Ref No: G19/2025
Umgungundlovu Health District Office Ref No: G20/2025
Ethekwini Health District Office Ref No: G43/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Clinical Health Science; Plus
degree or diploma in health management or Degree/Diploma in General
Management. Plus Current registration with the relevant health professional
body; Plus A minimum of Five (5) years’ experience in middle/senior
managerial level in Primary Health Care or District Health System. Plus
Unendorsed valid driver’s license. Computer literacy with proficiency in
Microsoft software applications. Additional Qualifications: Post-graduate
qualification in Public Health/Master in Business Management. Project
Management. NB: For the Pre-Entry Certificate for SMS, any individual may
register for the course and complete such in anticipation of wishing to apply for
a SMS post in future. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior
to the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post. NB:
All shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience
endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competence Required: The incumbent of this
post will report to the Chief Director: District Health Services: Head Office, and
107
will be responsible to ensure and account for the delivery of integrated,
effective and efficient health service at all levels of care based on the Primary
Health Care approach through the District Health System within
UMgungundlovu District (whichever is relevant). The ideal candidates must:
Possess a clear understanding of the challenges facing the public health sector
due to poverty, resource limitations and opportunistic diseases such as TB, HIV
and AIDS. Have the ability to analyse and interpret complex management data
and information to inform decision-making and alignment processes timeously.
Have the ability to develop innovative solutions for complex health and other
service delivery management problems. Possess strong leadership to: ensure
buy-in/support of other organs of state and external stakeholders to accomplish
deliverables identified in the Annual Performance Plans of the District. Provide
strategic direction to Institutions. Mediate processes for the allocation of
resources to Institutions. Build a highly effective and efficient health service
delivery team in the district; and reason/present/negotiate the case of the
district at departmental management and planning fora. Have the ability to
assess and manage the performance of the District Health System and directly
supervise staff. Have the ability to interact effectively and efficiently with a wide
range of stakeholders. Have the ability to turn around negative audit findings
in the district to be a positive one. Possess a good Knowledge and
understanding of universal health coverage Possess a clear understanding of
risk and other management processes and the application thereof to ensure
that the decentralised management model of the department is performing
optimally. Possess knowledge of the governance framework and legislative
imperatives set for the area of operation. Be computer literate with proficiency
in MS Office Software applications.
DUTIES : Based on relevant policy imperatives, provide strategic leadership and ensure
the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of an Annual
District Health Services Delivery Plan. Account in terms of planned initiatives
for the delivery of health services in the district. Coordinate and facilitate
processes to prioritise health service delivery initiatives and the allocation of
concomitant resources amongst health facilities in the district, whilst promoting
service delivery equity. Monitor and evaluate health service delivery within the
district, identify high risk areas and facilitate timeous corrective action where
required. Provide transversal clinical support and other support services to
Institutions. Ensure the development of an innovative and human rights
sensitive cadre of health workers at all levels. Identify and address transversal
health service delivery barriers that cannot be resolved at Institutional and
district level and filter those requiring intervention at Provincial level. Facilitate
the process of ensuring universal health access (NHI) for King Cetshwayo
Health District. Oversee and coordinate the delivery of Emergency Medical
Services (EMS) and Forensic Pathology Services (FPS) across the district.
Implement good governance, transparency, and accountability practices. Drive
all public health services within the district towards achieving and sustaining a
clean audit. Responsible for providing strategic leadership and overall
management of all health services within the district. Ensure the delivery of
high-quality, equitable, and patient-centred care across the district, while
driving compliance, efficiency, and continuous improvement. Effectively
manage and optimise all resources under your stewardship, including physical,
and technological assets, to ensure efficiency, accountability, and maximum
impact on service delivery. Build and maintain strong relationships with
community structures, oversight bodies, NGOs, and other health sector
partners. Participate in DDM, Operation Sukuma Sakhe (OSS) and other
intersectoral collaborations. Ensure all public health facilities on readiness for
audits, inspections, and quality assurance assessments. Promote a positive
organisational culture in the district. Supervise, mentor, and develop public
health teams in ensuring high performance, continuous improvement, and
policy compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mndebele Tel No: (033) 395 3274
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower. Interested applicants can visit the
following website at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details.“
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to
the following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
108
NB//The subject of your e-mail must be the post name that you are applying
for. Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online
or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated
Online Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). Applicants:
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit
separate applications for each post that you apply for. Should you not be
contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
OTHER POST
POST 30/121 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: VARIOUS CENTRES
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
Job Purpose: To plan, direct co-ordinate and manage the efficient and delivery
of clinical and administrative support services through working with the key
executive management team at the hospital within the legal and regulatory
framework, to represent the hospital authoritatively at provincial and public
forums, to provide strategic leadership to improve operational efficiency within
the health establishment to improve health outcomes.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive MMS salary package)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals & CHC:
Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital Ref No: G21/2025
Ceza Hospital Ref No: G22/2025
ST Appollinaris Hospital Ref No: G23/2025
Christ The King Hospital Ref No: G24/2025
Mbongolwane Hospital: Ref No: G25/2025
Benedictine Hospital Ref No: G26/2025
Eshowe Hospital Ref No: G27/2025
Church Of Scotland Hospital Ref No: G28/2025
Ntunjambili Hospital Ref No: G29/2025
Charles Jonhson Memorial Hospital Ref No: G30/2025
Kwamashu Community Health Care Ref No: G31/2025
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/advanced Diploma in a health related field, registration with relevant
professional council; plus A Degree/Diploma in Health Management OR a
Degree/advanced Diploma in a management field. Plus At least 5 (five) years
management experience in the health sector. Experience as a health service
manager or significant experience in management in a health service
environment. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). Operational
Manager and Clinical Programme Co-ordinator with five (5) years’ experience
as Operational Manager and Clinical Programme Co-ordinator respectively
may apply. NB: All shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of
work experience endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of
the interview. Competencies: Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation
such as National Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PMFA), Public
Service Act and related regulations and policies. Core Competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership, programme and project management, financial
109
management, change management, people management and empowerment.
Progress Competencies: Service delivery innovation, knowledge
management, problem solving and analysis, communication, client orientation
and customer focus.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the Hospital to ensure that it is
in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and district plans.
Financial Management: Maximise revenue through collection of all income due
to the Hospital, ensure that adequate policies, systems and procedure are in
place to enable prudent management of financial resources, planning of
financial resource mobilisation, monitoring and evaluation, asset and risk
management. Facility Management: Ensure business support and systems to
promote optimal management of the institution as well as optimal service
delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure planning
and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human Resource
Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource management
policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure effective and
efficient utilisation of human resources, promote a safe and healthy working
environment through compliance with relevant legislation including occupation
health and safety committees. Ensure continuous development and training of
personnel and implement monitoring and evaluation of performance.
Procurement and Management of Equipment and Supplies: Implement a
procurement and provisioning system that is fair, transparent, competitive and
cost effective in terms of provincial delegated authority and in line with the
PFMA, ensure that goods and services are procured in a cost effective timely
manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical governance to
ensure high standards of patient care, establish community networks and
report to the Hospital. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and
safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health
outcomes. Implement good governance, transparency, and accountability
practices. Drive the hospital and its catchment clinics towards achieving and
sustaining a clean audit. Responsible for providing strategic leadership and
overall management of all health services within the hospital and its catchment
area, ensuring the delivery of high-quality, equitable, and patient-centred care
across the facility and associated clinics, while driving compliance, efficiency,
and continuous improvement. Effectively manage and optimise all resources
under your stewardship, including physical, and technological assets, to
ensure efficiency, accountability, and maximum impact on service delivery.
Drive and implement innovative strategies that advance progress towards
Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in alignment with the National Health
Insurance (NHI) framework. Build and maintain strong relationships with
community structures, oversight bodies, NGOs, and other health sector
partners. Participate in Operation Sukuma Sakhe (OSS) and other intersectoral
collaborations. Ensure hospital and catchment clinics on readiness for audits,
inspections, and quality assurance assessments. Promote a positive
organisational culture.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Mndebele Tel No: (033) 395 3274
APPLICATIONS : All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower. (Attention: Mr. A Memela) Interested
applicants can visit the following website at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to
the following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
110
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted).
Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing
date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more than 1
post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for. Should you
not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
111
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment
will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental
Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic Development
and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to Nokuthula Simelane
Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 02,
Mbombela, 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective email
address provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431)
as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed, initialled
and dated. The form is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department(s),
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must indicate the Post,
Reference Number on the Z83 Form application. The new Z83 Form must be
accompanied by a recent updated curriculum vitae with full personal details,
experience, including three (3) names and contact numbers of referees and it
is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted).
The question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F
must be answered by applicants who were previously appointed in the public
service. Applications received after closing date will, as a rule not be accepted.
Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of
candidate(s) to be available for interview process on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to
undergo personal suitability checks, which include criminal records,
citizenship, financial credits/assets, qualifications verification and previous
employment background/reference checks will be verified. Candidates will be
subject to security screening and vetting. Applicants must disclose if she/he is
not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any business with
Organ of State and whether is performing any additional remunerative work
outside his/her normal duties. The successful candidate will enter into an
Annual Performance Agreement, and also annually disclose his/her financial
interest. Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised post
must direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. Communication
and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have
not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will
be appointed subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening process
which includes criminal records and verification of educational qualification
certificates. Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised
post must direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated.
Communication and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing
date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department
reserves the right not to make appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/122 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/14
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized undergraduate NQF level 07 tertiary
Qualification in Accounting/Auditing with ten (10) years relevant work
experience in an Internal Audit environment and 3 years should be at an
entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director Level or equivalent). Certified
Internal Auditor will be an added advantage. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the principles and practice of Internal Audit including but not
limited to International Professional Practices Framework of the Institute of
112
Internal Auditors (IIA). Extensive knowledge in areas of governance, risk
management and leadership and strategy management. Knowledge and
experience of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Public Service Regulatory
Framework on Internal Auditing. Extensive knowledge of internal auditing, risk
management, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and
other applicable and relevant prescripts. Prepared to work under pressure and
for long hours.
DUTIES : Maintain efficient and effective controls and achieving the objectives of the
Department by evaluating the department's controls/objectives, to determine
their effectiveness and efficiency through internal audits. Communicate the
results of internal audit engagements. Review, collect information and compile
internal audit reports to the accounting officer and audit committee, compile
progress reports against audit plan, Quarterly reports and annual reports. Keep
abreast with latest developments on policy and legislative frameworks.
Develop and maintain internal audit methodologies policies and procedures.
Provide advice and guidance to role players on the requirements and
implementation of internal audit methodologies policies and procedures.
Implement, monitor and report on the Quality Assurance Improvement
Program. Develop strategic internal audit plans. Identify the key risk areas for
the institution emanating from current operations as set out in the strategic plan
and risk management strategy. Participate in the development of the three-year
strategic risk based internal audit plan. Develop the annual internal audit
operational plan. Participate in the coordination with other internal and external
service providers of assurance to ensure proper coverage to minimise
duplication of effort. Keep up to date with new developments in the internal
audit environment, i.e. Study professional journals and publications. Monitor
and study the relevant industry, legislative, standards changes and policy
frameworks continuously. Engage in relevant continuous professional
development activities, tools and techniques as required/prescribed. Manage
the sub-directorate Internal Audit. Establish implement and maintain efficient
and effective communication arrangements. Implement the operational plan of
the sub-directorate and report on progress as required. Quality control of work
delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Xaba Tel No: (013) 766 4164
APPICATIONS : Email application to: recruitmentdedt2@mpg.gov.za
POST 30/123 : HR PRACTITIONER: HR PLANNING AND PMDS REF NO: DEDT
2025/26/15
Please note that this post is re-advertised and applicants who applied
previously are encouraged to reapply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in Human
Resource Management/Public Management/Public Administration or
equivalent relevant qualification with two (2) years’ work experience in an HRM
environment or completion of a 2 years Internship program in an HRM
environment. Experience in the field of PMDS and HR Planning environment
will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license is required. Understanding
of the government frameworks, PERSAL system, performance management
and development system, human resource and related prescripts, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, EEA with verbal and written communication
skills, computer literacy i.e. Microsoft word, excel, PowerPoint, ability to
manage conflict and to work under pressure and ability to analyse, interpret
and apply legislation, policies and prescripts.
DUTIES : Facilitate the submission of Performance Agreements, Mid-term and Annual
Assessments. Capturing of Performance Agreements, Mid–term and Annual
Assessment on PERSAL. Ensure the availability of an accurate PMDS
database. Facilitate the implementation of Annual Assessment outcome letters
(Pay progression). Facilitate the Development of EE Plan. Assist in the
development of the cost per head document. Administer secretariat services to
the Organisational Functionality Assessment and other Committees facilitated
by the Human Resource Planning section. Maintain an HR Policy register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Mabuza Tel No: (013) 766 4140
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt6@mpg.gov.za
113
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83
obtainable from any Public Service Department or any Public Service
Administration website. The fully completed and signed Z83 should be
accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae, indicating
positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following
communication from the Human Resource Management Recruitment and
Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or information will
result in your application not being considered. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The request for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Human Resource
Administration of the Department will inform shortlisted candidate for a post to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for all posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/124 : SENIOR CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: NCDOH:
92/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Experience: A minimum of 3
(three) years’ appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Independent Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical / Medical
management experience and/or experience working in an Academic hospital
will be considered advantageous. Knowledge and managerial experience
regarding managing Clinical Services; Human Resource and Financial
Resource Management. Knowledge of health delivery systems, policies and
applicable legislation, governing resource allocations. Applicable and proven
managerial experience in a Healthcare 63 environment, showing leadership,
strategic and operational skills. Understanding of quality improvement methods
and understanding of proposed national quality system Excellent
communication (written and verbal) and conflict management skills. Proven
computer literacy with proficiency in (i.e. MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint) with
the ability to understand and analyse statistical and financial information.
DUTIES : Overall strategic and operational management, clinical and corporate
governance of clinical service departments. Ensure the highest standards of
patient care are maintained and develop standard operating practices
regarding admission, treatment and discharge of patients within available
resources. Effective, efficient and sustainable human resource management
114
and planning within relevant general specialist and highly specialised clinical
departments. Participate in strategies to strengthen the regional health care
system ensuring equity of access to tertiary care. Facilitate and own
improvement projects relating to technical quality, internal efficiency,
effectiveness and appropriateness of relevant FBUs, i.e. ensuring well-
functioning and governed clinical centre within available resources. Special
portfolios/projects, which may include data collection, manipulation and
analysis. Facilitate platform for teaching, training and development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 30/125 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (PSYCHIATRY) REF NO: NCDOH: 93/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate plus MBBCh / MBChB plus FC Psychiatry or MMed
(Psychiatry) that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist.
Appropriate experience in Psychiatric setting. Experience: Grade 1: No
Experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in a normal
specialty. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA).
DUTIES : Management of services within the Mental Health Unit both clinical and
administrative. Provide effective and efficient outpatient mental health care in
the hospital including assessment, treatment and monitoring of psychiatric
patients within the framework of the Mental Health Care Act (No. 17 of 2002).
Development and implementation of evidence–based, clinical protocols and
guidelines. Partake in quality improvement programs including clinical audits,
morbidity and mortality meetings and continuous professional development
activities in the units and other departments. Implement and monitor adherence
to Mental Health Care Act. Rendering of afterhours services including
weekends (commuted overtime). Lead the multidisciplinary team discussions
of patients in the psychiatric wards. Liaise with referral centres for patients who
need further care and investigations. Training of staff members in the unit and
other departments. Active participation in all hospital committees. To liaise with
external stakeholders where appropriate and always maintain Professional and
Ethical conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 30/126 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO: 94/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R 1 322 352 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Practitioner. Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registered as
Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees 1-
year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with
recognised Foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service as required
115
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years appropriate experience
as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
health Professional Council in request of foreign qualified employees, of whom
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
DUTIES : The candidate will be expected to render quality patient-care for all patients
within in the relevant unit. Exam, investigate, diagnose and the treatment of
patients. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentation and other departmental/unit meetings. Render applicable
administration function, attend meetings, workshops and training as directed
by the Head of Department. Observe and comply with all departmental policies
and guidelines regulating employment relationships and clinical functioning.
Perform duties as assigned by the supervisor and other senior officials.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 30/127 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: 95/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Health and DRTB Hospital (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South Africa Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist with
the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration as Pharmacist with recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform community Services as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the
SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years’ relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with the SAPC in
respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid driver’s License. Willingness to perform relief and after-hour
duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): knowledge of the Acts
pertaining to the practice of pharmacy and national and provincial health
policies. Knowledge, insight and previous similar experience in a Departmental
Hospital or Primary Health Care Setting. Ability to cope under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism effectively manage pharmaceutical
stock through effective ordering, receipt, control and provision of stock
including its safe disposal. Ensure quality provision of pharmaceutical care and
adhering to policies and guidelines outline by the South African Pharmacy
Council, National Drug Policy and national and provincial treatment guidelines.
Effectively manage the human resources, finances and administrative aspects
relating to the clinical pharmacy. Effectively promote rational drug use and
antibiotic stewardship. Ensure the good Pharmacy Practice.
DUTIES : Perform duties to provide quality pharmaceutical care to patients by monitoring
work procedures, ensuring compliance to provincial code list and ensuring
116
clinical service delivery. Assist with ensuring quality of care of pharmacy
services by doing audits in areas where medicine is kept. Assist with medicine
management in the mental health specialised hospital by ensuring safe and
reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Assist with managing pharmaceutical expenditure which
includes monitoring, evaluation and analysis of expenditure trends and
implement strategies to control expenditure within financial prescripts. Assist
with collating and interpreting pharmaceutical data and ensure representation
of pharmacy services at all relevant meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AJ. Malgas Tel No: (053) 802 6300
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human resources offices
of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, couriered via postal services to
Portion 84, Bultfontein Farm Number 80 on R31 Barkley Road Kimberley 8301
or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered
POST 30/128 : AUDIOLOGIST REF NO: NCDOH 96/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 961 per annum
Grade 3: R 543 099 per annum
CENTRE : DR TB Hospital, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Audiologist. Registration with HPCSA
as Audiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as an
Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employee.
Experience: Grade 1: 1-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration with HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech
Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or
Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South African.
DUTIES : Coordinate, manage and develop audiology services for a designated area.
Clinical management of patients referred to audiology services. Effective and
efficient management of physical resources. People management (Rehab care
workers, students, volunteers). Participate in and contribute to education and
training activities. Liaise and collaborate with stakeholders. Screen, assess and
intervene as required and as and when its appropriate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AJ Malgas Tel No: (053) 802 6300
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human resources offices
of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, couriered via postal services to
Portion 84, Bultfontein Farm Number 80 on R31 Barkley Road Kimberley 8301
E-Mailed at NChealthhr@NCDOH.co.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 30/129 : RADIOGRAPHER REF NO: NCDOH 97/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Frances Baard District:
Warrenton CHC (X2 Posts)
Connie Voster Hospital (X1 Post)
Jan Kempdorp CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/B Tech Degree in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Diagnostic
Radiographer. Must have completed Community Service as per the Diagnostic
117
Radiographer. Valid driver’s license code EB. Experience: Grade 1:
Experience: None after registration with the HPCSA in respect of RSA qualified
employees who performed community service, as required in South Africa. One
(1) year relevant experience after registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Experience: Minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of RSA qualified employees who
performed community service, as required in South Africa. Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Experience:
Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in the
relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of RSA qualified employees
who performed Community Service, as required in South Africa. Minimum of
21 years’ relevant experience after registration with Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Sound knowledge of diagnostic radiography
procedures and equipment including computerized radiography [CR]
Knowledge of radiographic procedures, equipment and accessories
associated with relevant techniques. Sound knowledge of Radiation Control
Regulations, safety measures and policies. Knowledge of relevant Health &
Safety Acts. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work as
team.
DUTIES : To provide high quality radiographic services Perform general and specialized
radiographic duties as per departmental protocols. Provide a 24-hour
radiographic service on a either call out/night duty basis as per departmental
system. Execute all clinical procedures competently to prevent complications.
Perform ward and theatre radiography. Assist Radiologist and medical officers
with special examinations. Perform darkroom and clerical duties as per needs
Perform standby and after hour’s duties as per departmental call- roster
Promote Batho Pele Principles in the execution of duties for effective service
delivery Perform CT scan examinations as per allocation. Participate in Quality
Assurance Programme. Perform other duties within X-Ray Section as
delegated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Please post or courier your application to: The Department of Health: Frances
Baard Health District; 119 Green Street; Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand
deliver at the Registry Office at the Frances Baard Health District Office, Green
street, Old West End Hospital or emailed to: ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 30/130 : SOCIAL WORKER REF NO: 98/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Frances Baard District:
Phokwane Sub District (X1 Post)
Magareng Sub District (X1 Post)
Sol Plaatjie Municipality (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Formal Tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Arts) that allows
professional registration with the SACSSP. Registration with the SACSSP
(South African Council for Social Service Profession) as a Social Worker. A
valid Driver’s. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience in social work after registration
as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years’
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
DUTIES : Establish social work services and network for the Institution and maintain
communication with stakeholders. Ensure that social work service with regard
118
to the care, support and protection of individuals, groups, families through
relevant programmes is rendered. Keep up to date with new developments in
the social work field. Undertake social work research and development and
contribute to the development of policies. Render a holistic social work services
to individual groups and community using all methods of social work practices.
Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of recommended interventions, reports
on progress and identify. Further amended interventions to address identified
conditions. Liaise / attend meetings with other departments and
nongovernmental institutions to take 107 cognizance of the latest
developments in the relevant fields. Produce and maintain qualitative and
quantitative records of social work interventions processes and Outcomes.
Implement social welfare programme in accordance with the need of the
community and Government priorities. Supervise all administrative functions
required in the unit and undertake the higher level of administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Joka or Mr ND Mohamad Tel No: (053) 861 4770
APPLICATIONS : Application For Frances Baard District Please post or courier your application
to: The Department of Health: Frances Baard Health District; 119 Green Street;
Riviera, Kimberley, 8301 or hand deliver at the Registry Office at the Frances
Baard Health District Office, Green street, Old West End Hospital or emailed
to: ncHealthHR-FBD@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 30/131 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL REF NO: NCDOH 99/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse with psychiatry as a
prerequisite. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
experience appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ experience appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of an effective and efficient patient care
through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Provide relevant health information
to health care users to assist in achieving optimal health care and rehabilitation
of patients. Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and other
stakeholders (i.e. inter professional, inter-sectorial and multi-disciplinary
teamwork). Manage and monitor proper utilization of human, financial and
physical resources: Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation
of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AO Mintor Assistant Manager Nursing at 073 184 6400
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human resources offices
of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, couriered via postal services to
Portion 84, Bultfontein Farm Number 80 on R31 Barkley Road Kimberley 8301
or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 30/132 : STAFF NURSE REF NO: NCDOH 100/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 – R246 798 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 - R294 513 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R376 458 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse, Registration
with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None, Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse.
119
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRES : Ms A Mintor, Assistant Manager Nursing Tel No: (053) 802 3601
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human resources offices
of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, couriered via postal services to
Portion 84, Bultfontein Farm Number 80 on R31 Barkley Road Kimberley 8301
or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 30/133 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE REF NO: NCDOH 101/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R 196 305 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None,
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Provide elementary nursing care in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards. Implement and development of basic patient care plans to
provide quality patient care. Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
relevant legal and ethical framework i.e., Acts, policies, SOP’s, guidelines and
protocols governing the public service and Nursing Practice. Demonstrate
basic knowledge of ideal Hospital Realization and maintenance. Effective
utilization of resources, maintenance of proper and accurate record keeping.
Demonstrate basic communication with patients, Supervisors, and colleagues.
Willing to rotate through department and work night duty. Maintain professional
growth / ethical standards and self-development. Work as part of a
multidisciplinary team and support the managers to ensure quality nursing
care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mintor, Assistant Manager Nursing at 073 184 6400
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human resources offices
of Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital, couriered via postal services to
Portion 84, Bultfontein Farm Number 80 on R31 Barkley Road Kimberley 8301
or emailed to nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
120
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 30/134 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Langeberg Sub-district (Based at Robertson Hospital)
Witzenberg Sub-district (Based at Ceres Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualifications that allow
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience as Medical Officer after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid driver’s license. Willingness to commuted overtime. Willing to
work weekends and public holidays and to travel to various sites.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate in-depth clinical experience.
Appropriate clinical governance knowledge and skills. Good communication
skills (written and verbal) Ability to function/make decisions independently and
as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of financial and
human resource management, change management and other relevant
general management skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of
the Department of Health Western Cape. Good computer skills.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership and governance of clinical and corporate services that
contribute to quality and patient centred care within the Langeberg and
Witzenberg Sub-district and the wider ecosystem. Clinical service delivery
within the acute and primary health care facilities within the Langeberg and
Witzenberg Sub-district. Supervision, management, training, mentoring and
support of clinical staff within the Langeberg and Witzenberg Sub-district.
Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical
matters and medico-legal work. Ensure a cost-efficient and cost-effective
service at clinical level with regards to the use of staffing resources, workplace
systems, laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr NPB Beyers Tel No: (023) 626 8573 (Langeberg Sub-district)
Dr E Titus Tel No: (023) 316-9600 (Witzenberg Sub-district)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Witzenberg-and Langeberg
Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/135 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
121
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics.
Registration with a Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesia. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid SA
driver’s license. Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision of
staff. Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Anaesthetics service of high quality with
a patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
Central Ecosystem. Support to major referral centers in the Drainage area of
Worcester hospital by doing Outreach and support and improving
competencies in the District Health System to manage patients appropriately
and impact on wellness in the Geographic area. Financial management by
effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR
matters. Create a learning environment for junior staff, and students, both
under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate clinical audits and
research within the department to stay abreast of clinical development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/136 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid SA driver’s license. Participate in the after-hours call system.
122
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to manage all acute and chronic
psychiatry cases comprehensively. Proven leadership abilities and experience
in supervision of staff and resources. Proven experience in principles of
planning, organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health
policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Psychiatry service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
Geographical Service area (GSA). Support to major referral centers in the
Drainage area of Worcester hospital by doing outreach and support and
improving competencies in the District Health System to manage patients
appropriately and impact on wellness in the Geographic area. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters. Create a learning environment for junior staff,
and students, both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate
clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JJ Fourie Tel No: (023) 348 1101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/137 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (NUCLEAR MEDICINE)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after-hours call cover. Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness and ability to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective leadership & interpersonal skills. Appropriate and
sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB. Knowledge
and practical skills. Appropriate general medical experience. Computer skills
including typing, managing spreadsheets and using databases. Verbal and
written communication skills. One or more of the primary subjects of the MMed
(NucMed) or FCNP Part 1. Clinical experience in Internal Medicine, Oncology,
Radiology or Nuclear Medicine.
DUTIES : Provision of safe, comprehensive 24-hour tertiary level diagnostic and
therapeutic service to patients at Tygerberg Hospital. Produce timeous and
accurate nuclear medicine reports and assist in optimal workflow through
imaging domains. Perform after-hours duties as per call roster. Attend teaching
program activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the registrar training
program. Assist with the training medical students, nursing staff and
radiographers. Learn critical skills required of a Nuclear Medicine Physician.
Involvement in research/audits relating to Nuclear Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Warwick Tel No: (021) 938 4372
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
123
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stelllenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/138 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANESTHETICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
124
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1141
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This concession
is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will
be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of
3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. -
No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
Directorate: Health Intelligence
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of information
management and data governance. Appropriate supervisory experience
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel and overnight. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
computer skills in Microsoft tools and knowledge of WCDHW data systems.
Data & information management: Strong data management, information
management, and data governance skills including knowledge of data quality
principles. Health systems & technical expertise: Knowledge of health service
delivery, monitoring and evaluation, Western Cape Department of Health and
Wellness digital systems and proficiency in Microsoft Office (Power BI skills are
an advantage). Analytical & conceptual thinking skills, including numeracy and
business analysis and problem-solving ability with attention to detail. Planning,
project & resource management with sound administrative and policy
knowledge, including human resource management. Collaboration &
communication: Excellent interpersonal, facilitation, and relationship
management skills; Strong written and verbal communication, including report
writing and presentation skills. Ability to collaborate effectively across
multidisciplinary teams.
DUTIES : Lead strategic and operational planning, as well as project management, to
ensure optimal utilisation of resources within the sub-directorate. Design,
implement, and oversee information management and data governance
policies, practices, procedures, and tools to ensure effective, secure, and
compliant data handling across the organisation. Oversee the management
and provision of high-quality corporate data, along with the tools and systems
required to collect, integrate, and present this data effectively. Design, develop,
and maintain reporting tools and outputs to support both regulatory and
broader organisational reporting needs. Promote and sustain a high standard
of information management skills across the province by delivering targeted
training that builds understanding of information requirements, processes,
policies, systems, monitoring practices, and data quality principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Shand Tel No: (021) 483 2639 or Lesley.shand@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
125
POST 30/140 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PHC)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Calitsdorp CC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48),
accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum
of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Curative Skills in Primary Health
Care (R48). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Willingness to relief when necessary, in other
PHC clinics within the Sub-District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In-depth
Knowledge and application of Ideal Clinic and National Core Standards/Office
of Health Standard Compliance. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of nursing
and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource and Financial
policies. Good communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel,
PowerPoint and emails.).
DUTIES : Leadership and Management - Values Alignment, Team Functioning,
Governance. Integration of Services – COPC, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, Maternal,
Child and Women’s health and nutrition, disease prevention and control.
Strategy and support – Professional support, Monitoring and evaluation,
Operational Planning. People management. Management of staff and
supervisory functions, people relationships, APL, skills development, and
people strategy. Finance, supply chain, and physical resources management.
Quality Assurance – Compliments and Complaints, Patient Safety Incidents,
Occupational Health and Safety, Risk assessment, Patient Experience of care,
Staff Satisfaction Survey, Waiting time survey, Ideal Clinic, Office of Health
standard compliance, Quality Improvement Plans, Infection Prevention and
Control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Labuschagne Tel No: (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/141 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR: GRADE 1 (HAST)
(West Coast District)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Saldanha Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme
Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to
maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel and work when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
think strategically and analytically, work independently, as well as the ability to
interpret and implement policies and guidelines. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Coordination and implementation of Sub-district integrated comprehensive
health services i.e. HIV/AIDS/STI/TB services and establishing service
linkages with integrated management of chronic conditions, 1st 1000 day’s
126
strategy, adolescent, women’s and men’s health services and establishing
health services linkages on all service platforms at Subdistrict level. Provide
oversight, supervision and support to health facilities i.r.o. the implementation
quality assurance policies, guidelines, protocols, norms and standards.
Involvement with People Development component and training to support
integrated health services provision. Responsible for the strengthening and
coordination of internal and external interface management with stakeholders,
including NPOs, to enhance implementation of the COPC principles.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Integrated Health services performance as well
as the effective implementation of appropriate projects to improve the
integrated Primary Health care services and outcomes in the Sub-district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AR Louw Tel No: (022)709-5067
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/142 : PARAMEDIC (EMS CLINICAL LEAD) GRADE 3 AND 4 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. Grade 2:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech
Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP–
None. -Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years after
registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Registration with Professional council:
Grade 1: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2:
Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma.
Grade 3: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National
Diploma or ECP. Grade 4: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code
C1 driver’s license. Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and
mental fitness. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all
levels of emergency care protocols within the scope of registration category.
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy and skills.
DUTIES : Clinical Quality Assurance & Patient Safety: Lead the development and
implementation of comprehensive quality improvement frameworks to ensure
consistent, high-standard emergency care delivery from roadside to bedside.
Establish and maintain robust clinical governance structures, including incident
reporting systems, adverse event management, and patient safety protocols.
Monitor and evaluate clinical performance against established emergency
response timeframes and quality benchmarks across all service platforms.
Coordinate systematic collection and analysis of patient feedback, complaints,
compliments, and clinical outcomes to drive service improvements. Clinical
Leadership & Professional Development: Provide strategic clinical leadership
and mentorship to prehospital emergency care providers across all levels of
service delivery. Collaborate with multidisciplinary teams to develop evidence-
based clinical protocols, care pathways, and operational guidelines. Design
127
and facilitate continuous professional development programs, including clinical
coaching, skills enhancement, and competency assessments. Establish
clinical oversight mechanisms to support real-time decision-making and
maintain clinical excellence standards. Quality Improvement Program
Management: Design, implement, and evaluate targeted quality improvement
initiatives based on current evidence, best practices, and local contextual
needs. Coordinate cross-functional quality improvement projects involving
clinical, operational, and administrative stakeholders. Establish data-driven
performance monitoring systems to track clinical outcomes, response times,
and service effectiveness. Lead root cause analysis processes for clinical
incidents and develop corrective action plans to prevent recurrence. Strategic
Clinical Governance: Uphold and promote patient-centred care principles
throughout all emergency medical service operations. Ensure compliance with
regulatory requirements, professional standards, and organisational policies
across geographic and clinical service platforms. Develop and maintain clinical
standards, protocols, and quality metrics that align with national emergency
medical service guidelines. Provide clinical expertise and leadership input for
strategic planning and service development initiatives. Stakeholder
Engagement & Communication: Facilitate effective communication and
collaboration between clinical teams, management, and external healthcare
partners. Represent the organisation in clinical governance forums, quality
improvement networks, and professional development initiatives. Maintain
relationships with regulatory bodies, healthcare institutions, and community
stakeholders to support integrated emergency care delivery. Prepare and
present clinical performance reports, quality improvement outcomes, and
strategic recommendations to senior leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Abdullah @ Naseef.abdullah@westerncape.gov.za or (063) 780 1864
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates are subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within EMS, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/143 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 AND 2 (SPECIALTY: NURSING: MOU)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic/advanced
nursing qualification, with duration of at least one (1) year accredited with the
SANC in advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work in the geographical PHC facilities
within the Northern Tygerberg substructure, when operationally required.
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal, leadership and management skills. Ability to direct the
team to ensure quality holistic health care and to function independently in a
128
multi-disciplinary team. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and
public service legislation. Knowledge of Human resource, financial and supply
chain policies, and guidelines.
DUTIES : Responsible for the provision and implementation of comprehensive holistic
nursing care and treatment to all pregnant clients. Assist with management of
people management services with the Department. Effective utilisation of
financial resources with the department. Ensure the promotion of Quality
Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention & Occupational Health & Safety
with the department. Deliver a support service to the Operational Manager and
ensure effective coordination of the nursing division after hours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Ngcaba Tel No: (021) 508-4611
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed in the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications
within a predetermined period of time. Candidates without the required post-
basic qualifications can only be appointed if no suitable candidates with the
required educational qualifications could not be found. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC
in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Sciences. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.” Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/144 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE AND CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating
Theatre. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in
the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Required to work shifts and
after hours (weekends, public holidays, and standby duties) and rotation within
the facility. Willingness to undergo the required training as prescribed in terms
of the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1996. Computer literacy.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel and MS Outlook. Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework within the Operating Theatre. Assist with
management of people management services within the Department. Effective
utilization of financial resources within the department. Ensure the promotion
129
of Quality Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention & Occupational Health
& Safety within the Department. Deliver a support service to the Operational
Manager and ensure effective coordination of the Nursing Division after hours.
Render medical and surgical termination of pregnancy (MVA).
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Abrahams Tel No: (021) 816-500, Email: Lee-
Anne.Abrahams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Wesfleur
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/145 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (CLINICAL NURSE
TRAINING) (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND HOSPITAL)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
(plus non-pensionable rural allowance of 12% of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Central Karoo District Office (Clinical Nurse Training)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse &
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited
with SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse & Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of
4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and experience in the Primary Health
Care and acute services field of practice. Good communication skills both
verbal and non-verbal. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
Teams. Relevant knowledge, skills and experience in training and practical
mentorship.
DUTIES : Analyzing training needs and resources of clinical personnel in Central Karoo
District. Planning and coordination clinical training, skills development and
maintenance of competence interventions in the Central Karoo District.
Presentation, facilitation and co-ordination of clinical service related to training
programs in the Central Karoo District. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting of
clinical training and clinical skills development interventions in the Central
Karoo District. Support the Internal and External Interface strengthening with
the focus on the COPC Model. Support the Operational Managers to obtain
and maintain Ideal Clinic status.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel Tel No: (023) 414 3590
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
130
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/146 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (CLINICAL NURSE
TRAINING AND QUALITY ASSURANCE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
(plus non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with a duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R 48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the specific
specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence
and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
knowledge of the principles and policies of Quality Assurance, Infection,
Prevention and Control (IPC) and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS).
Teaching, presentation, training and assessment skills. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer Literacy (MS Office: MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Analyzing training needs and resources of clinical personnel at Kannaland
Sub-district level. Presentation facilitation and co-ordination of clinical service
related to training programs at Kannaland Sub District. Monitor and coordinate
the Quality Assurance program. Monitor and respond to consumer complaints,
compliments and suggestions. Monitor and assist with morbidity and mortality.
Monitoring, evaluation and reporting of clinical training and clinical skills
development interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Labuschagne Tel No: (028) 551 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden
Route District for a period of 3 months from the date of advert. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
131
POST 30/147 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(INFRASTRUCTURE SOURCING)
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
Sub-directorate: Infrastructure Sourcing
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Procurement/ built Environment/Supply Chain
Management/Public Management/Finance/Project Management/Auditing/
Management or equivalent qualification. Experience: Appropriate experience
in the Supply Chain Management environment. Appropriate supervisory
experience. Appropriate experience in procurement of built environment-
related goods and services by means of commodity-driven sourcing strategies,
in particular. Appropriate experience in executing procurement projects from
needs analysis through to contract management stage. Appropriate experience
in procurement processes prescribed by the Construction Industry
Development Board. Appropriate experience in Tender Management, Demand
Management, Supplier Performance, Compliance & Reporting, Contract
Management, Policy & Governance; and Human resource management.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound management,
report writing and analytical skills and ability to assimilate detailed information.
Commodity exposure across a range of FM services, ie. plumbing, electrical,
general building and mechanical maintenance, HVAC, fabric repairs, etc.
Demonstrate stakeholder engagement, influencing skills. Financial and
commercial awareness. Proven experience managing complex projects.
Ability to work under pressure and pay attention to detail and meet deadlines.
Computer literacy (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Rigorous expenditure
analysis and reporting skills. Human resource management.
DUTIES : Provide an integrated demand, acquisition and contract management service
of infrastructure goods and services commodities for the Department through
the development, implementation and maintenance of a transformative
approach to sourcing in the Department of Health with a focus on: Commodity-
based lifecycle costing: take ownership of spend management within your
category through the design and execution of innovative category
management plans. End-to-end management of the sourcing process: drive
vendor performance management, vendor identification, evaluation. Supplier
relationship and performance management: ensure that high standards of
contractor performance are maintained. Internal stakeholder management.
Delivery of optimal commercial benefits to the Department. Ensure the
following in compliance with departmental policies, procedure, guidelines and
applicable legislation: Assist in the implementation of an effective supply chain
management performance management system that measures the
performance of suppliers in accordance with departmental policies and
procedures and applicable legislative requirements, the supply chain
management unit and the Department; Review and collate supply chain
management information for timely reporting to relevant stakeholders;
Conduct the annual Auditor General reporting, develop the infrastructure AOS
and delegations and yearly reviews ; Monitor the performance of supply chain
management activities; Develop and review departmental policies and
applicable to supply chain management and perform and support supply chain
management compliance testing and institute remedial action; Perform SCM
abuse; complaints, enquiries and appeals investigations; Assist with any
infrastructure related activities within the unit ; Provide infrastructure training
and support institutions; Build capacity within the infrastructure environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Snell, email: Priscilla.Snell@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/148 : CHIEF LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER
Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
132
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in translation, editing,
proofreading and project management in a public sector communication
context. Appropriate experience in minor formatting and language and
grammar corrections. Certification in translation, editing and proof reading from
a recognised institution or accredited professional body. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel and work after hours.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven ability to manage the delivery of
language services, including translation, editing and proofreading. Sound
knowledge of language policy implementation within the public service. People
management and workflow coordination abilities. Analytical and problem-
solving skills. High levels of computer literacy (MS Office / Office365; Adobe
InDesign advantageous). Strong interpersonal and project management skills.
Ability to work under pressure and manage competing priorities. Excellent
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Manage the translation, editing and proofreading services of the Language
Unit. Oversee project management and workflow for language services.
Supervise and support language practitioners within the unit. Ensure
alignment with the language policy of the Western Cape Government. Maintain
quality standards across all language outputs. Provide strategic support to the
DD: Strategic Communication.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Evans Tel No: (021) 483- 3080
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. This is a readvertisement –
previous applicants are encouraged to reapply.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/149 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGISTRY
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and understanding of the National Archives and Records Service
Act, Provincial Archives and Records Services Act, POPIA, PAIA and
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Knowledge of information and
records management. Specialist knowledge of records management policies
and practices. Numeracy or Literacy skills. Sound Verbal, Written and
Interpersonal Communication.
DUTIES : Ensure adherence to registry protocols/ processes. Administration, Planning
and Organising. Ensure the safe storage of records as well as the accessibility
and availability thereof to relevant stakeholders. Coordinate the archiving and
disposal of records to the legislative requirements. Develop, implement and
maintain an electronic content management (ECM) system. Ensure effective
and efficient People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Thorne Tel No: (021) 483 5917 / Ashley.Thorne@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/150 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: QUALITY IMPROVEMENT GOVERNANCE
Chef Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree in a health-related field registrable with any South African Health
Professional Body. Experience: Appropriate experience of utilising recognised
quality improvement methodology in a healthcare environment. Hospital
experience is an advantage. Evidence of delivering training in Quality
Improvement methodology to groups and individuals. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) Drivers Licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
133
Advanced coaching experience to admin and clinical personnel in a healthcare
ecosystem. Extensive working experience utilising recognised improvement
methodology in a healthcare setting. Experience in translating strategic goals
of health care services using quality improvement methodology to maximise
efficiency and achieve good health outcomes. Experience of utilising advanced
data analysis to make recommendations to management on process
improvement in a health care setting. Advanced computer skills in Microsoft
365 packages.
DUTIES : Work within a healthcare ecosystem to support health care facilities and
services along the patient pathway. Work with internal and external
stakeholders to facilitate process improvement to the healthcare ecosystem.
Lead and direct process improvement projects that delivers measurable
operational performance improvement. Coaching of all levels of healthcare
personnel in recognised quality improvement methodology to improve
operational performance. Create an empowering culture within teams to
translate strategic direction into meaningful sustainable objectives. Develop a
training program, based on an established service improvement framework
that can sustain improvement thinking and application, and assist with the
development and training material to different staff categories.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Vaughan Tel No: (021) 799 1201 or email:
Jonathan.Vaughan@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind
is required -“The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
the department, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/151 : MORTUARY MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Laboratory (L2) Oudtshoorn
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent)
qualification. Experience: Appropriate extensive experience in Forensic
Pathology Service. Appropriate Supervisory experience in the Forensic
Pathology Service setting. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Will be required to work standby duties (after hours) and wear
a uniform. Ability to lift and work with corpses (mutilated, decomposed,
infectious viruses, etc). Will be required to deliver testimony in court
proceedings. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good working knowledge of IT
packages (FPS Business System and Live link). Competent in numerical
assessment, planning, forecasting and checking (budget, procurement, stores,
claims, etc). People management and planning skills. Above average computer
and software literacy in at least MS Excel and Word. Ability to achieve and
maintain good interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients, with
knowledge of the Core values of the Department and to interpret and apply
policies. People Management, Finance & Supply Chain experience.
DUTIES : Manage the facility and service area through Strategic Operational planning,
communication and resource allocation. Effective Clinical service delivery and
Management of Major Incidents in the service area. Effective Human Resource
Management. Effective Management of Finances, Assets and Infrastructure.
Effective Electronic Information and Document Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Fyfe, e-mail at sean.fyfe@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Assessment. The pool of applicants may
be considered for other vacant Mortuary Manager posts within the Chief
Director Emergency & Clinical Services Support, for a period of 3 months from
date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
134
POST 30/152 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director: Metro Health Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Development. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Knowledge and interpretation of the human resource
prescripts in the Public Service. Good communication, interpersonal and
presentation skills. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies
and prescripts. Ability to function in a stressful environment and cope with a
heavy workload. Appropriate planning and administration skills. Leadership
capabilities, managerial and organisation skills.
DUTIES : Compilation of people development compliance reports (WSP, ATR QMR).
Supervision of Staff and projects in the People development component.
Supervise the administration of People Development projects .i.e. Bursaries,
EPWP and AET. Coordination of people development interventions i.e. CIP,
short courses e.t.c. Supervise the maintenance of People Development
database. Ensure timeous and accurate reporting with regards to People
development compliance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Nyangaza Tel No: (021) 815 8690
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/153 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
(Carpentry) Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after obtaining the
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape. Do standby
duties and emergency callouts as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Competency in Supervisory and Management skills. Sound interpersonal and
good verbal and written communication skills. Sound knowledge of mainly
finish Carpentry (Shopfitting, Finishing Carpentry, Furniture making industry).
And a sound knowledge of building trades (Carpentry, Plumbing, Building).
Sound knowledge of the SANS 10 - 400 Building Regulation. Be conversant
with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Computer literacy (MS Office and MS Excel). Conversant with disciplinary
actions.
DUTIES : Supervise staff in Workshop and produce designs and objects with material
and equipment according to job specifications and standards and provide and
assistance to Artisans and other workshop staff. Carry out technical
investigations and surveys, develop repair solutions to plant, equipment and
maintenance problems and render technical advice and ensure quality
assurance of all work performed Repair equipment, facilities, plants and
buildings according to standards including the hub clinics. Keep register of all
work done, keep control of job cards and compile and submit reports as
required. Ensure the adherence is given to the Occupational Health and Safety
act. Perform administrative duties and assist with personnel progress reports.
Assist with the ordering, procurement and control of maintenance material and
equipment (Validating quotations, writing Specifications). Planning and décor
of new installations and alterations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Julies Tel No: (021) 850-4738
135
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Artisan Foreman post within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/154 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Support & Outreach Beaufort West PHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Council for Social Services Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with SACSSP as a Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ appropriate experience in social work after registration as Social Worker
with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years’ appropriate experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Social worker supervision framework; human behaviour
and social systems; and the ability to intervene at the points where individuals
interact with their surroundings to foster social well-being; social work
interventions and theories; Knowledge and Information Management;
Professional ethics and protocol; relevant legislation, policies, and prescripts
(standards and norms); social dynamics, work values, and principles; and
empowering and developing others. Good communication (written and verbal)
and report-writing skills. Self-management and motivation, good planning,
organizing, problem solving and analytical skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and Outlook). -Presentation and facilitation skills. Client orientation and
customer focus. Challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality,
oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Ability and competence to ensure
that one assists, advocates and empowers individuals, families, groups,
organisations and communities to enhance their social functioning and their
problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources
effectively and efficiently. Understanding and ability to ensure that one provides
social services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at-risk and
unable to protect themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (Case work, group work and Community
work). Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form. Supervise and Support Social Auxiliary Workers.
Continuous professional development. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields. Perform all the
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Dr W. Hine Tel No: (023) 414 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
136
other similar posts within the Central Karoo District, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/155 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An accredited secretarial diploma and/or
administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 (a certificate of
completion should be provided). Qualification on a higher NQF level may also
be accepted on condition that the subjects of the qualification align to the
functions as per the attached job description. Experience: Appropriate
experience in rendering a support service to Middle and or Senior
Management. Appropriate experience in office administration and or
management, which includes financial management, asset management,
logistical support. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills-
intermediate to advance (MS Office). Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Excellent interpersonal, time management, office
management and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial service to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Provide a
receptionist support service to the office of the CEO including answering and
directing telephone calls as well as visitors and proper scheduling of meetings.
Ensure adequate, timeous preparation for meetings. Render administrative
support to the Office of the CEO including typing of minutes in meetings and
certain documents when required and ensure accuracy of documents and
ensuring good record keeping including effective and efficient filling system.
Effectively and efficiently manage the diary of the CEO and ensure prioritizing
of important meetings. Ensure responsible co-ordination of the CEO’s
meetings i.e., logistics arrangements, venues etc. Support the CEO with the
administration of the Budget and Supply chain including maintenance of
Equipment and ensuring office equipment is operational.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Gaji Tel No: (021) 360 4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/156 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Asset Management, Supply Chain Management, Inventory Management and
Procurement processes and reporting. Appropriate experience in LOGIS, EPS,
CSD and WCSEB. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) code
drivers’ licence. Willingness to lift heavy boxes and assets. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): In depth knowledge of SCOA codes and reports on LOGIS
and able to do reconciliations and asset reporting. Organisational, managerial,
leadership skills and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Good
interpersonal and organisational skills. Good strong people management skills,
ability to work in a team context and motivate team members. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Office. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions,
Provincial and National Treasury regulations, Supply Chain Instructions as well
as Accounting Officer System.
DUTIES : Effective management, procuring and monitoring of Inventory and Asset
Management process and prepare documents for the Quotation Committee
meetings. Perform asset stock take according to prescripts. Responsible for
receiving, issuing and lifting of heavy items/assets. Perform relief duties and
provide an effective support service to supervisor, management and institutions
within Metro region. Manage staff in Supply Chain component in all aspects of
137
People Management. Ensure that all transactions comply with legislative
requirements (Audit compliance). Assist with the reporting of Annual and
Interim Financial Statements, compiling and verifying asset reports monthly
including reconciliations. Authorise Procurement Advice & Orders where
applicable Handle all Audit queries related to SCM and execute control
compliance related to SCM. Ensure sound Labour practices are executed and
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Whitting Tel No: (021) 815 8733
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/157 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Parow CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A Minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work after hours. Willingness to work in
the geographical PHC facilities within the Northern Tygerberg substructure,
when operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
grievance procedure and disciplinary legislation. Knowledge and
understanding of nursing Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the
SANC of Nursing Standard of Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate
in MS Office (Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Mtshengu Tel No: (021) 810 8130/1
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Professional Nurse General posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
138
POST 30/158 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (PHC-GENERAL)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Nieuveld Park Clinic (ARV/HIV), Beaufort West Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work in all Primary Health Care facilities e.g.
Community Day Centers, Clinics, Satellite clinics and on Mobile Clinics. Valid
driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Planning and organisational Skills. Self- discipline and
motivation. The ability to function independently under pressure. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practise within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Oerson Tel No: (023) 814 2930
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/159 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (NURSE RELIEF
TEAM) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends
and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Prepared to work in
all departments/wards according to the operational needs of the hospital.
139
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning, and
organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office & Outlook) Knowledge of
the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing Act and other relevant
legislation.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Marepula Tel No: (021) 440 3107
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/160 : EMS CONTINOUS QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PARAMEDIC GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 per annum
Grade 2: R397 308 per annum
Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. Grade 2:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech
Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Grade 1: Registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma. Grade 3: Registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Grade 4:
Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or
ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
National Diploma. -Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP–
None -Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years after
registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical
and mental fitness. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of
all levels of emergency care protocols within the scope of registration category.
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy and skills.
140
DUTIES : The primary purpose of this role: Establish and enhance Continuous Clinical
Improvement mechanisms within the WCGHW Emergency Medical Services
to deliver quality, efficient roadside-to-bedside emergency care within defined
timeframes across all geographic and clinical service platforms. Core Duties:
Patient Care Excellence: Ensure the dignity and rights of all patients are upheld
at all times. Maintain consistently high-quality patient care standards across
the entire service. Deliver continuous, effective, and holistic pre-hospital
emergency care to the Western Cape public. Clinical Leadership &
Development: Partner with healthcare and emergency service professionals to
develop evidence-based care pathways, protocols, policies, and clinical
guidelines alongside the Head of Clinical Support Services. Provide clinical
advice and support to prehospital providers for effective clinical decision-
making. Establish living clinical improvement and coaching mechanisms to
enhance provider capabilities. Quality Improvement & Innovation: Design and
implement targeted clinical improvement initiatives based on current evidence
and contextual appropriateness. Oversee the management and performance
of recognised emergency procedures for both urgent and critical care cases.
Establish living clinical oversight models to actively monitor and evaluate
clinical practice effectiveness. Strategic Implementation: Promote patient-
centred practices across the full spectrum of current and planned clinical
services within WCGHW EMS. Provide strong clinical leadership throughout
the organisation to drive continuous improvement. Performance Management:
Monitor service delivery against established emergency timeframes and quality
benchmarks. Evaluate and enhance clinical practices through systematic
oversight and feedback mechanisms. Drive organisational excellence through
strategic leadership and clinical governance.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Abdullah, email: @naseef.abdullah@westerncape.gov.za or 063 780
8164
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/161 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST- BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
(INSTITUTIONAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Montagu CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post-Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Registration with Professional council: Current registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post
Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant
(Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of
13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as
a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). with the SAPC. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness to travel between PHC facilities
in the Langeberg and provide relief as Pharmacist’s Assistant (ISPA).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy of MS Office (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook) and dispensing/stock control programs
141
(Wellsky(JAC) and WinRDM) will be an advantage. Ability to work accurately
under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work
in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication
skills. Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies,
Medicines Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance
Management Act. Appropriate knowledge of drug supply management.
Innovative analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, co-ordinate, manage
and sustain programs.
DUTIES : Pharmaceutical service delivery according to legislation and scope of practice.
Effective medicine supply management (Receiving, storage, control and
distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold chain management in all areas
where medications are kept. Provision of health information and advice on
correct usage and storage of medication. Assistance with waste management
and rational usage of resources. Compliance with policy and legislative
requirements and Good Pharmacy Practice Guidelines. Assistance with the
Chronic Dispensing Unit (CDU) processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C de Kock Tel No: (023) 614-1304
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)” The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Langeberg Sub-district, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/162 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale CDC, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic). Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post- Basic)
(Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB)) and willingness to travel in the Sub
District. Willingness to work at other clinics in the Sub-District. Willingness to
work overtime and after hours as needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures.
Knowledge and/or experience in handling pharmaceutical supplies in both the
hospital and clinic environment, including appropriate cold chain practices.
Knowledge of Drug Supply Management Principles. Knowledge of Good
Pharmacy Practice. Meticulous and attention to detail. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy in the Microsoft Office Package. Ability
to use at least one of the computerised dispensing and stock control programs
available Physically ability to move heavy pharmaceutical items at various
heights in the pharmacy storeroom.
DUTIES : Working under both direct and indirect supervision of a pharmacist within the
hospital and clinic environment respectively. Manage drug supply within the
facilities, including but not limited to correct ordering of stock, receiving and
checking of stock, appropriate stock control and storage, rotation of stock to
prevent expiry, accurate handling of expired stock, and appropriate
142
temperature control. Dispensing and issuing of acute and chronic scripts
according to Standard Treatment Guidelines and the WCGHW Pharmaceutical
Code List. Issuing medication prepared by Tertiary Institutions and CDU
(Chronic Dispensing Unit) and the management thereof. Support to the
pharmacy supervisor and colleagues within the Hessequa Sub-District, within
scope of practice. Ensure the provision of high-quality services measured by
outcomes of quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Wilson Tel No: (028) 713 - 8615
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)” The pool of applicants will be considered for
similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period of 3 months
from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/163 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(DENTAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources that include Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, Pension
Administration, PERSAL and Recruitment and Selection. Appropriate
experience in People Development and Labour Relations. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of HRM Policies and Practices, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Collective Agreements regarding
personnel- and salary administration. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel,
outlook and Powerpoint. Ability to meet deadlines and to maintain
confidentiality. Knowledge of basic Labour Relations matters. Knowledge of
PERSAL. Knowledge of Skills Development Act.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution
of monthly payslips and debt management and also verify documents.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL and audit personnel and
leave records. Maintenance of registers, i.e. PILIR, RWOEE, Appointment and
service terminations. Assist staff, supervisor, management and members of the
Public with regard to Human Resource and Personnel matters. Provide an
effective support service to supervisor (i.e. relief duties and attending
meetings). Assist with Training Needs Analysis, Compiling of Quarterly
Monitoring Reports and Workplace Skills Plan. Co-ordination of meetings,
taking minutes, typing and dissemination of minutes after the meeting. Maintain
grievance and disciplinary database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jooste Tel No: (021) 937 3144
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
143
POST 30/164 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Fees-related environment dealing with Clinicom Patient Administration.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to rotate between departments as
per operational requirements if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy. (Ms Outlook, Ms Excel). Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS, Clinicom, Billing and Finance instructions. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Clinicom patient registration functions attendances, disposals as per PGWC
Hospital Fees policies and procedures including booking of appointments &
patients transport on Healthnet. Attending to patient queries (both verbal and
written). Responsible for handling and receiving of public money, Cash
Collection and Banking of State Money. Debiting of Charge Entries to invoices
as per UPFS and PGWC billing procedures including ICD10 capturing. Provide
administrative and secretarial support services to the department. Various
Reception tasks or duties assigned to you by immediate supervisor as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Sedres Tel No: (021) 404 3277
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/165 : SENIOR TELKOM OPERATOR (SWITCHBOARD)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Experience:
Appropriate Technical Support experience within Telephone Exchange
Department. Operating an electronic switchboard and messaging system.
Appropriate supervisory experience in Telephone Exchange Department within
hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night shifts, weekends and public holidays. Work overtime when
required by operational needs. Physically able to hear and speak clearly.
Perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to operate an
electronic switchboard. Excellent listening skills and telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy in Microsoft Packages (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Manage and support all aspects of a PABX and VOIP systems. Setting up and
ensure operation of workstations and network servers. Co-ordinate system
updates, configuration changes, installation of hardware, software and
devices. Create and manage all speed dial and pin code requests, update both
the hard and electronic hospital telephone directory, action and execute all
telephone faults reported. Processing all new applications, transfers of
telephone lines and equipment. Effectively monitor excess telephone calls, bill
personal calls, installing and setting up of VOIP Telephone Systems. Assist on
the electronic switchboard including handling of incoming and outgoing calls;
receive and deliver messages; handle and resolve queries from the public.
Timeous submission of stats and progress reports as well as provide
assistance to the supervisor as well as other line managers. Effective
management of resources including people management, finance and assets
Responsible for supervision of staff including staff performance and disciplinary
matters. Training and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This is a
readvertisement – previous applicants are encouraged to reapply.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
144
POST 30/166 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal and written). Attention to detail, relationship building skills,
multi-tasking, time management, critical and analytical thinking. Knowledge of
the Western cape Government Recruitment and Selection policy.
DUTIES : Filing of documents and maintenance of various HR databases. Support
Selection Panel as HR Advisor. Process and facilitate paid/unpaid job offers
and contracts of employment. Hosting of fingerprints and sending documents
to external service provider for verification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Benjamin Tel No: (021) 404 2331
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/167 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Heidelberg Clinic, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administration experience in reception. Appropriate
experience in Patient Registration, Records Management and Archive policies.
Appropriate experience of Health Information Systems (PHCIS, Sinjani,
Tier.Net/ETR and Ideal clinic capturing). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to rotate between Reception and
Information Management department. Willingness to relieve at other facilities
in Hessequa Sub District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
knowledge of Registry, Reception Services, Medical Records, Disposal and
Record Management Policies. Computer Literacy skills (MS Excel, Word,
Power Point). Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Leadership and governance by ensuring implementation of DOH policies,
guidelines and SOP’s. Effective and efficient management of Reception
Services and Registry functions. Client service and support. Data
management. SCM and Equipment management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E. Braaf Tel No: (028) 713 - 8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/168 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Hopefield CC (X1 Post), Langebaan CC (Saldanha Bay Sub-district)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A
145
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers Licence. Willingness travel and relief in other
clinics when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
and interpersonal relations. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health,
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Community Participation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JA Julies Tel No: (022) 709 7225
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/169 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery. Grade
2. Grade 1: None. After registration with SANC Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Staff
Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse
with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when necessary and to work all departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of paediatric orthopaedic conditions and the
management thereof Surgical experience in the Basic computer skills in (i.e.
MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Ability to function/make decisions independently
and as part of a multi-disciplinary team Good communication and interpersonal
relationships Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols
of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Participate in infection
prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (021) 850 4752
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Staff Nurse within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates may be subjected to conduct a Competency Assessment.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/170 : TELKOM OPERATOR
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) /grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in operating an
146
electronic switchboard/PABX, a messaging and paging system. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shifts, weekends and
public holidays. Work overtime when required by operational needs. Physically
able to hear and speak clearly. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
operate an electronic switchboard. Excellent listening skills and telephone
etiquette. Computer literacy in Microsoft Packages (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Handle all outgoing and incoming calls. Manage switchboard, answer
telephonic queries and deliver messages. Ensure that switchboard and
telephone equipment is in working order. Handling of PABX and VOIP systems.
Monitor, place and record all cellular, national and international calls made.
Keep records of speed dial number. Send and receive calls via the 2-way radio.
Broadcast staff and information via broadcast system. Report all faults to
Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/171 : LINEN SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in laundry
services. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to do manual labour
(heavy linen bags) and assist in other departments when required. Able to
handle heavily soiled linen containing human excretions and blood.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
Knowledge of Laundry Services.
DUTIES : Monitor of contracted Hospital Linen Supervisor Provider. Monitor of Hospital
Linen. Supervise hygiene, occupational health and safety. Supervise the
maintenance and control of apparatus and equipment. Management and
administrative function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cupido Tel No: (021) 816 8575, Email:
Ricardo.Cupido@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/172 : FOOD SERVICE SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and training Certificate
(GETC)- Grade 9 (St 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a large scale,
Food Service Unit. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to
work shifts, which include weekends/public holidays and overtime as needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of hygiene, occupational health,
HACCP and safety principles. Knowledge of production and cooking methods
for normal and therapeutic diets in an Industrial Foodservice Unit on a large
scale. Sound organising skills. Inter-personal skills in relations with all
categories of staff in the execution of his/her supervisory functions. Computer
literacy, writing skills and the ability to work under pressure (Computer literacy
to be mentioned in CV or proof attached).
DUTIES : Order, receipt, storage and issue all food provisions and stock in the
foodservice unit. Supervise food pre-preparation and production of all full and
therapeutic diets. Supervise the weighing, dishing and distribution of food to
various wards. Supervise hygiene, use and maintenance of equipment and
occupational health and safety. -Supervise human resources, financial
resources and do stock control. Process food statistics and keep records.
Adherence to prescripts, elementary control measures and standard
operational procedures.
147
ENQUIRIES : Mr DL Daniels Tel No: (021) 850 4726
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Food Service Supervisor within
the Chief Directorate: Metro Health for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
POST 30/173 : SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the Security Board of South Africa in terms of the Security Industry
Regulations Act (Act 56 of 2001) PSIRA, at level of Grade ‘C’. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a Security Officer in a Hospital environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays,
weekends, and to be rotated. Perform delegated duties in all units on a rotation
basis. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A strong sense of responsibility and
the ability to function independently in challenging situations. Knowledge of
Management of aggression and violence. Self-discipline, self-motivated and
the ability to work under pressure. Good listening, writing reports, conflict and
group handling skills. A strong sense of responsibility and the ability to function
independently in challenging situations. Knowledge of Management of
aggression and violence. Self-discipline, self-motivated and the ability to work
under pressure. Good listening, writing reports, conflict and group handling
skills.
DUTIES : Ensure access/egress control to prevent the unlawful entry/removal of
persons/vehicles/dangerous objects and illegal substances and the monitoring
of surveillance cameras/fire alarm systems. Protect/guard buildings/key-
points/patients/visitors/personnel as well as the patrolling of fence –off
areas/buildings and the premises. Assistance to personnel with the handling of
aggressive/violent and uncontrolled patients. Delivery of a supportive security
service to allocated areas with the aim to prevent injuries, abscondment of
patients, litigation, and adverse incidents. Effective application of service
delivery and efficient support to the supervisor. Control/monitor surveillance
cameras to identify and prevent any unlawful entry, suspicious, dangerous
objects, and adverse incidents as well as vehicle thefts and forcible entry of
departments/entrances of the hospital. Reporting and recording of all incidents,
patient movements and patient related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Michaels Tel No: (021) 658-5573
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
148