PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 17 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 23 MAY 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : GOVERNMENT PRINTING WORKS: Kindly take note of the amendments on
the following posts advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated
16 May 2025 with 09 June 2025 as a closing date. The closing date remains
as 09 June 2025. Post 16/177: Assistant Director: Vetting with Ref No: GPW
25/48, Salary: R582 444 per annum, Post 16/188 Senior Administrative Officer:
Office Services & Cleaning with Ref No: GPW 25/60, Salary: R397 116 per
annum, Post 16/206 Stores Assistant (X2 Posts) Centre: Regional Warehouse
Pretoria with Ref No: GPW 25/78 And Regional Warehouse North West with
Ref No: GPW 25/79, POST 16/203 Administration Clerk: Asset Management
Ref No: GPW 25/82
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that
posts of Senior Security Officer salary level 6 for the IPID National Office with
Ref No: Q9/2025/57 advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated
16 May 2025 with a closing date of 30 May 2025, posts are temporary 12
months fixed contract. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORT: Kindly note that the post of Administrative Officer: Fleet
Management & Office Services (X3 Posts) with Ref No: DOT 336/2025,
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 09 May 2025, has been
amended as follows. The Job Title has been changed to read as follows:
Administrative Officer: Government Owned Vehicles (X3 Posts).
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH-WEST: OFFICE OF THE
PREMIER: Kindly note that the positions of Assistant Director: Investigation
(X2) and Assistant Director: Management Accounting in the Office of the
Premier advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 16 May
2025 with the closing date 30 May 2025, the salary level was erroneously
captured as R444 036 per annum. The correct salary level is R468 459 per
annum.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE A 04 - 07
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 08 - 13
HEALTH C 14 - 17
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING D 18
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES E 19 - 24
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 25 - 26
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT G 27 - 29
NATIONAL TREASURY H 30 - 35
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE I 36 - 43
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION J 44 - 46
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE K 47 - 71
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES L 72 - 74
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE M 75 - 151
FREE STATE N 152 - 155
GAUTENG O 156 - 179
KWAZULU NATAL P 180 - 183
MPUMALANGA Q 184 - 189
NORTHERN CAPE R 190 - 199
NORTH WEST S 200 - 205
WESTERN CAPE T 206 - 347
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit
certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up
engagements/second round interviews/or any other method) that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and
technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core
competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Advanced programme and project management. Change
management. Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication
skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed subject
to positive results of a pre-employment screening process which includes
criminal records and verification of educational qualification certificates. It is
important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right to make an appointment. The below post is a
senior management post. The requirements for appointment at Senior
Management Service level include the successful completion of Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the course prior to
appointment. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: COMMUNITY WORK PROGRAMME REF
NO: DCOG-DDG
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA plus 8 years’ experience
at a Senior Managerial level. Experience in a similar programme will be an
added advantage. Proficiency in MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. The
4
Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before
appointment to the post. A valid driver’s license. Intensive travelling. Generic
Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Programme and project management. Financial management.
Change management. Knowledge management. Service delivery innovation.
Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Both government and private sector Infrastructure Development
approaches. The link between Infrastructure Development and Economic
Development. Public-private partnerships. Poverty eradication and job
creation. Community Development approaches. Exceptional understanding of
the system of Cooperative Governance.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide strategic
leadership and guidance in the management of the implementation of the
Community Work Programme. Oversee management of partnerships,
development of norms and standards and provisioning of innovative solutions.
Provide strategic support on the organizational development intervention and
implementation of a monitoring, reporting and evaluation system. Provide
strategic leadership and guidance in the coordination of strategic partnerships,
special projects and implementation of capacity building for the programme.
Oversee management of finance audit and contract risks for the program.
ENQUIRIES : Content related enquiries: Ms Amanda Jacobs at 066 484 5045 or
AmandaJ@cogta.gov.za
: Administrative related enquiries: Ms Ezre van Wyk Tel No: (012) 334 0638 or
064 850 8845
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruitment01@cogta.gov.za
POST 17/02 : DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: H&SCOGTA038
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience at a
middle/ senior management level specializing in Monitoring and Evaluation.
Experience in strategic planning would be an added advantage. The Nyukela
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before
appointment to the post. Proficiency in MS Word, MS Excel and MS
PowerPoint. A valid driver’s license. Generic Competencies: Strategic capacity
and leadership. Knowledge management. People management and
empowerment. Service delivery innovation. Programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Financial management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Change management. Communication (verbal
and written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge in: Policy
framework for the government-wide Monitoring and Evaluation System, 2005.
Framework for managing Programme Performance Information, 2007. Service
Delivery Improvement Plan Directive, 2019. Public Service Regulations, 2016,
as amended. Public Finance Management Act, No. 1 of 1999. Framework for
managing Programme Performance Information, 2007. Revised framework for
strategic plans and annual performance plans.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide leadership
and oversight on the monitoring and evaluation of projects, quarterly and
annual performance information reported by programmes. Provide leadership
and oversight on the monitoring and implementation of the Medium-Term
Development Plan priorities. Provide leadership and oversight on the
development of the Service Delivery Improvement Plan and ensure that is
effectively monitored and implemented. Provide leadership and oversight on
the development of standardized sector indicators in collaboration with
provincial CoGTAs and entities and analyse their quarterly performance
reports. Sound corporate governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Xundu Tel No: (012) 334 0643
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
cogta038@hslabour1.co.za
5
For application enquiries contact: Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
POST 17/03 : DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
(KWAZULU-NATAL) REF NO: H&SCOGTA039
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Local Government/
Development Management or equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience at a middle/ senior management
level. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be
completed before appointment to the post. Proficiency in MS Word and MS
Excel. A valid driver’s license. Intensive travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies:
Strategic capacity and leadership. Knowledge management. People
management and empowerment. Service delivery innovation. Programme and
project management. Problem solving and analysis. Financial management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Change management. Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge of:
Advanced project coordination skills. Advanced project/ programme
management development. Planning and organizing. Project/ programme
formulation. Project monitoring and evaluation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the
development, review and implementation of the district one plan. Manage the
development, implementation and monitoring of municipal infrastructure
projects. Manage the coordination of monitoring and reporting on municipal
governance, institutional capacity and compliance with legislation and
regulations. Oversee the coordination of municipal support (s154) and
implementation of interventions (s139) in municipalities in collaboration with
provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nolwazi Njokweni at 082 8107197
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
cogta039@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
POST 17/04 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL HUMAN RESOURCE SYSTEMS REF NO:
H&SCOGTA040
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Law / Human Resource Management or
equivalent qualification (NQF 7 as recognized by SAQA). At least 5 years
relevant experience at middle / senior management level in the relevant field.
The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed
before appointment to the post. Proficiency in MS Word and MS PowerPoint.
A valid driver’s license and intensive travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage) MS Project. Generic Competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. Knowledge management. People management and
empowerment. Service delivery innovation. Programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Financial management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Change management. Communication (verbal
and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of: Municipal
Structure Act. Municipal Systems Act. Public Service Local Government
Transformation. Monitoring and evaluation techniques. Policy formulation.
Cooperative governance.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop,
coordinate, monitor norms and standards for post provisioning, advise
municipalities on organisational design frameworks, change management
interventions and evaluate the affordability and sustainability of municipal wage
6
and salary bill. Develop, coordinate the implementation of policy and guidelines
on staff performance management systems, monitor and support the
implementation of Disciplinary Regulations, including disclosure of interest.
Provide job descriptions guidelines and job evaluation systems. Regulate and
conduct competency assessments in local government in compliance with
Municipal Systems Act and its Regulations. Develop policy and administer the
implementation of local government competency framework and assessment
batteries and determine the annual adjustments for the upper limits of the
salaries and allowances of Councillors and Senior Managers. Monitor
appointment of Senior Managers with necessary qualifications, skills and
experience in line with the Municipal Systems Act and its Regulations and
advise the Department with Labour Disputes referrals from Municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Motlashuping at 066 484 5062
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
cogta040@hslabour1.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Elginita Moodley Tel No: (011) 468 4192
OTHER POST
POST 17/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE AND
CONTRACT LAW SUPPORT REF NO: ASD-ADMINCOMLW/57
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Legal or equivalent
qualification (at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA). At least 3-5 years’
experience in compliance, legal or regulatory roles. Knowledge and
understanding of Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) and
Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Drafting/ writing skills. Excellent
verbal and written communication in English. Ability to work under pressure,
independently and as part of a team. Initiative and result driven. Analytical.
Proficient in MS Excel and MS Word. Additional Requirements (Advantage):
Advance Certificate in Compliance Management. Member of the Compliance
Institute of Southern Africa. Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service Compliance Framework. Generic Competencies: Planning and
organising. Coordination. Problem solving and decision making. Project
management. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Team leadership. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: Conducting legal research.
Interpretation of statutes. Drafting of legislations and/or policies. Knowledge of
applicable legislation in public service.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Compile and update
the compliance universe register. Review existing and new policies to ensure
that they are aligned to applicable legislations. Compliance Administration,
such as monthly / quarterly reporting in the Department. Assist in the
management of Promotion of Personal Information Act (POPIA) and Promotion
of Access to Information Act (PAIA) related queries (internal and external).
POPIA and PAIA Administration with the Information Regulator.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Manahano Mokone Tel No: (012) 336 5813
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruit8@phakipersonnel.co.za
For application enquiries contact, Koena Tibane Tel No: (011) 941 1953
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference number
of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic
requirements. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act(POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the purpose of this
promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
ERRATUM: Please be advised that the duration for the following advertised
posts is a four (4) year contract, and Not a one (1) year renewable contract as
previously stated, Registry Clerk with Ref No: GAP-PRET-23521830-
20250424-1 (X3 Posts), Messenger/Driver with Ref No: GAP-PRET-
23521830-20250424-2 (X3 Posts) and Please be informed that the advertised
posts for Office Service Aid with Ref No: GAP-PRET-28298004-20250424-1
(X3 Posts) were published with an incorrect job title. The correct job title is
Food Aide Services, and these positions are offered as a four (4) year contract,
not a one (1) year renewable contract as previously stated. These positions
8
were advertised on the Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 09 May 2025
with a closing date of 23 May 2025. Sorry for inconvenience caused. Enquiries:
Ms. Z Mdebuka Tel No: (012) 309 4830
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/06 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/5/24
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Social Sciences (Psychology) / Public / Business Administration.
Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years at Supervisory level (Senior
Admin Officer/Practitioner) in Public Employment / Public
Administration/Management Services. Driver’s license. Knowledge: Financial
Management, Human Resource Management, Relevant ILO Conventions,
Recruitment and Selection Processes, Relevant government strategies,
Employment Service Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Act (PSA), Skills Development Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication (both verbal and written),
Computer literacy, Analytical skills, Presentation skills, Interpersonal skills,
Report writing, Leadership, Networking, Information Management, Innovative,
Client focused/centric, Sense of responsibility and Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Coordinate International Cross-Border Labour Migration, PEA and TES
functions. Coordinate the provision of services to distressed companies.
Facilitate stakeholder relations for acquisition of placement opportunities.
Provide operational and technical support to labour centres for the delivery of
effective employer services. Facilitate the provision of IT infrastructure and
implementation of innovations to render effective employer service. Facilitate
the training of ESSA end users (internal and external) on employer service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Maseko Tel No: (031) 366 2010
APPLICATIONS : Director: Public Employment Services, Provincial Operations: P. O. Box 940,
Durban, 4000 Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For
online Applications Email to: Jobs-KZN6@Labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Provincial Office: KwaZulu-
Natal
POST 17/07 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ANTI-FRAUD AND ANTI-CORRUPTION REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDAFAC/UIF (X5 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Forensic Audit / Internal
Audit / Forensic Accounting / Commerce / Risk Management / Law. Four (4)
years’ experience of which two (2) years must be functional experience in Risk
Management/ Anti-Fraud and Corruption and two (2) years’ at supervisory
experience. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Public Service Regulations (PSR).
Public Service Act (PSA). Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations
(UIAR). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Skills:
Interviewing. Communication, Listening. Computer Literacy. Time
Management. Analytical. Interpersonal. Report writing. Planning and
Organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of the departmental anti-fraud and anti-corruption
strategies. Coordinate the detection of fraud and corruption irregularities / risks.
Coordinate fraud and corruption investigations. Facilitate the fraud and
corruption awareness campaigns. Manage resources in Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TI Maphatane Tel No: (012) 337 1827/ 1551
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF4@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
9
POST 17/08 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDCG/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in public management/
Administration/ Auditing/ Law/ B Com Law/ B Com Auditing. Four (4) years’
experience of which two (2) years must be functional experience in Board and
Committees environment and two (2) years’ experience at supervisory level.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Protocol on Corporate
Governance in the Public Sector (PCGPS). Handbook on Appointment of
person/s in Boards of State owed Entities (HAPBSSOE). Companies Act (CA).
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA). Labor Relations Act (LRA). Public Service Act (PSA). Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Skills: Financial management. Communication.
Analytical. Problem solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Facilitate he implementation of the Compliance universe. Conduct the
compliance risks and provide advice. Facilitate the implementation of the
compliance plan. Review policies and procedures in line with the Compliance
framework. Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SP Mashele Tel No: (012) 337 1608
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF5@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 17/09 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDSPME/UIF (X4 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Public Management/
Public Administration/ Management/ Business Studies/ Business
Administration/ Internal Audit. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years
must be functional experience in Monitoring and Evaluation and two (2) years
must be supervisory experience. Knowledge: Prescripts governing Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation in the Public Sector. Revised Framework for
developing Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan and Annual Operational
Plan. Project Management. Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations
(UIAR). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA).
Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act. Skills: Communication, Report
writing. Presentation. Analytic.
DUTIES : Facilitate verification of the performance information evidence. Conduct
Performance Monitoring and Evaluation of various UIF projects to determine
value for money. Track performance against UIF Directorates and Fund’s
Plans. Coordinate quarterly planning and reporting engagements with Chief
Directorates/ Directorates. Manage Resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Molema Tel No: (012) 337 1673
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF6@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 17/10 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: STORES AND WAREHOUSE REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SPSWM/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Logistics/ Supply Chaim
Management/ Public Administration/ Management/ Public Supply Chain
Management. Two (2) years functional experience in Purchasing and
warehouse environment. Knowledge: Supply Chain Management: A guide for
Accounting Officers. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act no 5 of
2000. Treasury Regulations. Public Finance Management Act no 1 of 1999.
Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act 2003. Internal Policies and
10
Circulars. SCM National Treasury Practice Note. Skills: Communication.
People Management. Problem Solving. Planning and Organizing. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing. Listening. Negotiation. Conflict Handling. Work in high
pressure environment.
DUTIES : Verify the receipt and issuing of stock. Verify processing of requisitions and
invoice. Validate accurate records of movement of inventory, goods and
services procured. Verify the replenishment of stock. Supervise resources in
the Sub-director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Moodley Tel No: (012) 337 1834
APPLICATIONS : email:Jobs-UIF7@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/11 : OHS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/35
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Newcastle (KZN)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognised qualification at NQF6/7 in
the relevant field ie. Electrical Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Pillay Tel No: (034) 312 3334
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Newcastle Labour Centre, PO Box 985, Newcastle 2940 Or
hand deliver at 29 Scott Street, Newcastle. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN27@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 17/12 : BCEA INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/5/02
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Newcastle (KZN)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6/7 in Labour Relations/ BCOM
Law/ LLB. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (Own
work), Computing (Spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing),
Interpersonal skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
11
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Pillay Tel No: (034) 312 3334
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Newcastle Labour Centre, PO Box 985, Newcastle, 2940 Or
hand deliver at 29 Scott Street, Newcastle.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal Email: Jobs-
KZN20@labour.gov.za
POST 17/13 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ACQUISITION REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACA/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ certificate or equivalent. No experience required. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Bid Adjudication processes. Supply Chain
Management Systems and processes. Batho Pele Principles. Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Analysis. Problem solving. Planning and Organizing.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Report and Writing.
Time Management. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Maintain the contracts of the UIF. Provide administration to the Bid Committees
(BAC, BSC, BEC). Provide support for the tendering process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WE Kruger Tel No: (012) 337 1876
APPLICATIONS : email:Jobs-UIF8@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/14 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REQUISITION REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACR/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Supply
Chain Management: A Guide for Accounting Officers. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act no 5 of 2000. Treasury Regulations. Public
Finance Management Act no 1 of 1999. Broad Based Black Economic
Empowerment Act. SCM National Treasury Practice Notes. Skills:
Communication. Interpersonal. Problem Solving. Planning and Organizing.
Computer Literacy. Report writing. Listening. Time Management.
DUTIES : Capture financial commitments on the financial system. Render stores and
warehouse support. Maintain contractual transit function. Prepare purchase
order packs for payment.
ENQUIRIES Ms T Moloto Tel No: (012) 337 1765
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF9@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box
1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/15 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACDM/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Standard 10. No experience required. Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service
Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Skills: Minutes writing. Report writing.
Computer Literacy. Communication. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Render demand clerical support. Provide general clerical support services
within the section. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the
component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services in the
section.
ENQUIRIES Mr J Parsotam Tel No: (012) 337 1726
12
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF10@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/16 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACAM/UIF (X3 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate / Senior certificate or equivalent. No experience required.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Asset Management
Framework. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA).
Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Employment Equity Act (EEA). Skills: Computer Literacy. Communication
(Verbal and written). Problem solving. Planning and Organizing. Time
Management. Report writing.
DUTIES : Allocate assets as per purchasing request. Maintain and update the fixed asset
register. Conduct asset verification in line with asset management policy and
procedures. Render disposal service of assets for the Fund.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MR Mathebula Tel No: (012) 337 1655
APPLICATIONS : email:Jobs-UIF11@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/17 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TRAVEL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACTM/UIF (X3 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate / Senior certificate or equivalent. No experience required.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). National Travel Policy
Framework. Departmental policies and procedures. Basic Administration.
Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations
Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Skills: Computer
Literacy. Communication (Verbal and written). Problem solving. Planning and
Organizing. Time Management.
DUTIES : Check completeness and correctness of bookings on all travel sectors and
conference venues in the Fund. Consolidate information of Invoices received
and prepare payment for the TMC. Ensure that all cancellation and no shows
are recorded in the register. Verify accuracy of bookings on Travel it.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MR Mathebula Tel No: (012) 337 1655
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF13@labour.gov.za, Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O
Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and Pretorius
Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 17/18 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: HR4/4/5/15
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles,
Telephone etiquette, Departmental Policies, Knowledge of Switchboard
operations. Skills: Communication skills, Listening skills, Judgement,
Diplomacy, Identify problems, Interpersonal relationship, Basic literacy.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient telephone service. Give assistance to MSS
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mwelase Tel No: (031) 366 2316
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: P.O Box 940, Durban, 4001 or hand deliver at 267 Anton
Lembede Street, Durban OR Email to: Jobs-KZN14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources: Operations, Durban
13
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 09 June 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/19 : DIRECTOR: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION STRATEGIES REF NO: NDOH
40/2025
Chief Directorate: HIV, AIDS and STIs
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consist of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion]. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and a NQF 7 qualification in Health Science as recognized by
SAQA. A postgraduate qualification (NQF 8) in Health Sciences or Public
Health will be an advantage. At least five (5) years’ experience at Middle
Management/Senior Management within HIV and AIDS programmes, including
prevention strategies. A good track record of managing strategic
programmes/projects of national scope. Knowledge in the field of HIV and
AIDS, HIV Prevention programmes, policy development, monitoring and
evaluation, data management, project and programme management.
14
Knowledge and understanding of health challenges in South Africa and SADC
Region. Broad knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, 66 of 1995, Public Service Act, 1994, Public Service Regulations and the
Individual Grievance Regulations 2010. Good communication (verbal and
written), managerial and administrative, financial and human resources
management, strategic leadership and co-ordination, problem solving and
diligence, planning, organizing, project and time management, change and
knowledge management, diversity management and computer skills (MS
Office package). Ability to work in high pressured environment driven by a
sense of urgency to meet deadlines. Willingness to travel frequently, work long
hours and the ability to function under pressure. A valid driver’s license. SMS
pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment finalization.
DUTIES : Provide oversight and strategic leadership on the implementation of HIV
prevention strategies in line with the strategic plan of the National Department
of Health. Ensure availability of all Prevention Guidelines. Manage prevention
programmes including HTS, STI’s, PEP and PrEP, Youth HIV prevention
programmes and Advocacy Communication and Social Mobilisation (ACSM).
Ensure timely, accurate, quality, financial and programmatic reporting in
relation to the Directorate: HIV Prevention Strategies. Develop and implement
communication strategies in relation to HIV Prevention Strategies. Ensure
mainstreaming on nuanced and culturally appropriate prevention messages
and campaigns. Manage key stakeholder relationships. Create effective cordial
and appropriate links with all critical internal and external stakeholders in HIV
prevention, including PEPFAR, UNAIDS, Research Institutions, SABCOHA,
DBSA and the DPSA. Manage risk, audit and personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Shabangu Tel No: (012) 395 9157
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/20 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES POLICY GRADE
1 REF NO: NDOH 44/2025
Directorate: Food Control
SALARY : R1 045 446 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package). The flexible portion of the package
can be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and an appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in Natural
/ Biological and Food / and/or Pharmaceutical Sciences, which include subjects
related to food safety, biotechnology, food science/technology and/or
pharmacology that allows registration with HPSCA in the relevant profession
(where applicable). A postgraduate degree (NQF level 8) in Public Health /
Pharmacology Sciences will be an advantage. At least three (3) years’
appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA in the relevant
profession. Experience should be at least an Assistant Director or equivalent
level. Knowledge of food safety and Food Control System of South Africa, and
Codex Alimentarius. Knowledge of food safety risk assessment and in
particular the toxicological evaluations and dietary exposure assessment of
chemicals, chemical safety of foods and sound knowledge of chemical safety
evaluation, risk analysis and experience in food control and administrative
aspects related to the legislative process thereof (i.e. Foodstuffs, Cosmetics,
and Disinfectant Act, 1972 (Act 54 of 1972) and the regulations pertaining to
the Act). Knowledge and experience in policy development, evaluation and
monitoring. Essential skills: good communication (verbal and written),
analytical, computer (MS Office package and advanced Excel skills will be
tested at interview) and desirable skills: conceptual, interpersonal, and
planning skills. Ability to work under pressure, independently, with team
members and the willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Manage and lead the sub directorate including compliance provisions of the
Public Service Act, PFMA, PMDS, capacity building, chemical safety,
coordination, financing and procurement. Develop and/or facilitate legislation,
policies, guidelines resultant from registrations of compounds or approval of
agricultural foods by department of Agriculture and/or the South African Health
Products Regulatory and any other emerging issues. Facilitate and/or
participate in research and information systems for risk assessment and risk
management of chemicals and emerging issues or technologies in foods.
15
Manage participation (and implement where applicable), in food safety and
food control related initiatives within the African and/or international context.
Manage risk and audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Campbell Tel No: (012) 395 8799
POST 17/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT REF NO: NDOH
41/2025
Directorate: Information Communication and Technology
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and an NQF 6 qualification in Information
Technology/information Systems/ Computer Software Engineering/
Informatics/ Management Information Systems or Business Information
Management. A Bachelor's degree (NQF 7) qualification in the above fields will
be an advantage. At least two (2) years’ experience in the ICT industry at a
supervisory level. Relevant and adequate exposure to applications
development lifecycle methodologies, information systems analysis, business
process management and analysis, ICT planning and ICT service
management. Knowledge of a process Based Approach Project Management
Practice, Systems Development Life Cycle, database design and
management. Knowledge of Web Application Development (HTML, JAVA,
.Net, PHP and/or other web application portal technology and programming
languages). Knowledge of the public service regulations and legislation. Good
communication (verbal and written), policy analysis and development,
planning, organizing, time management and group dynamics, facilitation,
coordination, negotiation, people management, interpersonal, technical,
analytical, problem solving and computer skills (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Analyze, evaluate, design, validate, define and document detailed business
functional and technical requirements of multiple stakeholders. Map business
process to ensure transparency, dependencies and process lifecycle
management. Build a repository and database of business processes.
Develop, facilitate and negotiate technical requirements and technical
solutions amongst multiple stakeholders to business problems. Develop
technical specification for anticipated business process automation. Identify
the current and future state business processes. Help business stakeholders
to envision the future and how their work will need to change to support the
future including data migration rules, business rules and enforcing elements of
system design. Establish process dependencies and duplications. Manage
risks, audit queries and resources. Develop mechanisms and or ways of
resolving the identified issues to ensure system development success.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mabuza Tel No: (012) 395 8647
POST 17/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE POLICY
GRADE I REF NO: NDOH 42/2025
Directorate: Food Control
SALARY : Grade 1: R638 856 - R707 625 per annum, as per the OSD
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 7 qualification in Natural Sciences that allows registration
with the Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant
profession (where applicable), that includes subjects related to food safety. A
diploma or additional training in Food Law, Legislative Drafting or Policy
Development will be an advantage. At least three (3) years’ appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant field (where
applicable). Knowledge of Food Control and Food Control System in South
Africa, departmental policies, operating procedures and standards, Foodstuffs,
Cosmetics and Disinfectants (FCD) Act, No 54 of 1972 and its regulations.
Administrative aspects of law enforcement, legislative process and policy
making. Good communication (verbal and written), planning and time
management, interpersonal, policy drafting, presentation and report writing,
research and analytical, and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to
work well under pressure and independently whilst integrating tasks with team
members. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Review, develop and/amend legislation and administer statutory functions
under the FCD Act. Co-ordinate, conduct and review research and
investigations on current and emerging food safety issues and food
16
surveillance or monitoring programmes. Develop and conduct surveys and
research on emerging food safety issues, trends, and risks (in collaboration
with other technical officials. Manage, provide and coordinate Information,
Education, and Communication (IEC) activities related to food safety. Assist in
the coordination of the annual World Food Safety Day celebration (WFSD) and
ensure its IEC activities are implemented. Support capacity building and
stakeholder engagement on food control related matters. Manage risk and
audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SY Parring Ref No: (012) 395 8787
POST 17/23 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE POLICY
GRADE I REF NO: NDOH 43/2025
Directorate: Food Control
SALARY : Grade 1: R638 856 - R707 625 per annum, as per the OSD.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 6 qualification in Microbiology that allows registration with
the Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant field
(where applicable). An NQF level 7 in Microbiology and/or a diploma or
additional training in legislative drafting or policy development will be an
advantage. At least three (3) years’ appropriate experience after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession or food safety (where applicable).
Knowledge of food safety and Food Control System in South Africa,
departmental policies, operating procedures and standards, Foodstuffs,
Cosmetics and Disinfectants (FCD) Act, No 54 of 1972 and its regulations.
Knowledge of roles/responsibilities of international bodies, other departments
and institutions involved in food control, technical aspects of related food safety
topics e.g. foodborne diseases, food hygiene. Legislative processes and policy
making. Knowledge of antimicrobial resistance. Good communication (verbal
and written), planning, project and time management, interpersonal, policy
drafting, presentation and report writing, analytical, and computer skills (MS
Office package). Ability to work well under pressure and independently whilst
integrating tasks with team members. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Review, develop and amend food safety legislation relating to food hygiene
and microbiological food safety. Management of Codex Alimentarius matters
related to food hygiene and microbiological safety. Develop an information
system for data required for risk assessment to inform regulatory oversight and
amendment. Management of the sale of irradiated foodstuffs and HACCP
compliance. Liaison with stakeholders. Respond to relevant technical queries
related to areas of responsibility, received telephonically or in writing. Manage
risk and audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SY Parring Tel No: (012) 395 8787
17
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(FREE STATE CET COLLEGE)
The Department of Higher Education and Training is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It
is intended to promote representivity through the filling of this post.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post or hand delivery to: Free State CET College, 86 Kellner
Street, Westdene, Bloemfontein, 9300.or email ALekgau@FS.CETC.edu.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr MA Lekgau
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : The Application must include only completed and signed new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department of on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za and a detailed Curriculum Vitae and academic record of the
highest qualification. Certified copies of Identity Documents, Senior Certificate
and the highest qualification as well as driver’s license where necessary, will
only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. The old Z83 form may result in disqualification. Applicants who
do not comply with the requirements outlined above, will not be considered.
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 17/24 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: FSCET 01/06/2025 (BLOEMFONTEIN)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Free State CET College
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/Bachelor's degree in finance and experience
in Supply Chain/Procurement environment will be added as an advantage.
Sound knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management
and PPPFA. Good analytical, report writing and administrative skills. Good
written and verbal communication skills. Good interpersonal skills. Good
administration skills. Able to work under pressure. Be reliable and determined.
Computer literacy in MS Excel; Word; and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to execute various administrative
tasks including but not limited to: Render demand & acquisition clerical support.
Render logistical support services. Render asset clerical support, assist during
verification of assets and maintain fixed asset register. Manage and maintain
the contracts of the College, monitor and update contract register frequently.
Financial support services within the Supply Chain. Scan, file and upload all
documents on the system. Collect all budget inputs and consolidate. Monitor
the expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AM Legau Tel No: (051) 250 4021 Email: Alekgau@FS.CETC.edu.za
18
ANNEXURE E
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. People with
Disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore preference will be given to
candidates whose appointment will assist the JICS in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms
of the JICS’s Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : Applications for posts of Independent Correctional Centre Visitors must be
directed to the relevant Regional Office:
Centurion/Northern Management Region: Private Bag X153, Centurion,
0046. Alternatively, applications may be handed in at Block C 3, Eco Origins
Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
KwaZulu-Natal Region: P.O. Box 1322 Durban 4000. Alternatively,
applications may be handed in at Aqua Sky Building, 275 Anton Lembede
Street, 8th Floor, Durban, 4001.
Cape Town/Western Cape: Private Bag X9177, Cape Town, 8000.
Alternatively, applications may be handed in at Standard Bank Building, No. 1
Thibault Square, 9th Floor, Cnr Long Street & Hans Strijdom Avenue, Cape
Town, 8001.
Eastern Cape: P.O. Box 192, East London, 5200. Alternatively, applications
may be handed in at East London Magistrates Court, 3rd floor, room 407,
Buffalo Street, East London, 5200.
Central Management Region: P.O. Box 3839, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Alternatively, applications may be handed in at Fedsure House, 3rd Floor 62
St Andrews Street, Bloemfontein, 9300
All other applications: Private Bag X153, Centurion, 0046. Alternatively,
applications may be handed in at Block C 3, Eco Origins Office Park, Witch-
hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
CLOSING DATE 13 June 2025
NOTE : The application must include only the completed and signed new Z83 Form
(which has been in effect since 1 January 2021), obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive and detailed
Curriculum Vitae, with specific starting and ending dates in all relevant
positions and clarity on the levels and ranks of experience as compared to the
Public Service, as well as at least three contactable references. Certified
copies of the Identity Document, Senior Certificate, Driver’s License where
necessary and all qualifications mentioned in the CV, as well as a SAQA
verification report for foreign qualifications, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to Human Resources on or before the day of the interview date. It
is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing
date will not be considered. The successful candidate will be appointed subject
to positive results of the security clearance process and the verification of
educational qualification certificates and other suitability checks. It is important
to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and
attachments in support of the application are submitted when requested. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application
form, you agree and consent in terms of section 11 (1) of the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013 (POPIA), to your personal information which
you provide to JICS being processed by JICS and its employees, agents,
cabinet committees, and sub-contractors for recruitment purposes, under the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013. Where applicable, candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be
appointed on a probation period of 12 months. JICS reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the advertised posts. The successful candidate
will be expected to sign a performance agreement. Please Note: Before you
apply: All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant.
The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of 1994. The
19
Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services is committed to the achievement
and maintenance of diversity and equity employment, preference will be giving
to Whites, Indians and people living with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/25 : REGIONAL INSPECTOR & INVESTIGATIONS DIRECTORATE: LEGAL
SERVICES REF NO: JI 01/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Management Region – Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior certificate. 3-year
relevant tertiary qualification in Criminal Justice or relevant field on NQF 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 1-3 years relevant working experience (interviewing,
taking of statements and collecting evidence). Assertive and able to adhere to
deadlines. Attention to detail and excellent report writing skills. Ability to work
effectively without supervision but also in a team. Unendorsed driver’s license
is essential as well as willingness to travel extensively at short notice (including
weekends). Proficiency in English and at least one other official language.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for inspections and investigations
at correctional centres in the regions. Compile reports of completed inspections
and investigations and refer it to the Manager: Inspections/investigations.
Administrative tasks related to inspections and investigations in the
Management Regions. Profiling of correctional centres and perusing reports
received from Independent Correctional Centre Visitors (ICCV’s) in the region.
Deal with unresolved complaints received from Visitors Committee meetings in
the region.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L De Souza Tel No: (021) 421 1012.
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/26 : VISITORS COMMITTEE COORDINATING OFFICER –VCCO REF NO: JI
02/2025
Directorate: Management Regions
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Management Region - East London
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate/Grade 12,
Degree/National Diploma in Public Administrations/ Public Management, NQF
6 as recognised by SAQA. 3 year Degree/National Diploma in Office
Management or Administration recognised relevant qualification on NQF 6 or
equivalent qualification; a minimum of 5 years’ experience in the Justice
Cluster or a minimum of 2 years’ supervisory experience; Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act and Regulations and
National Treasury Regulations; A valid driver’s licence. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office), (Excel), (PowerPoint); Sound
Interpersonal relations; Communication (verbal and written) skills; Planning
and organizational skills; Able to work under pressure, independently and
willingness to work extra hours; Problem solving and leadership skills; Ability
to pay attention to detail. Good conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide management,
supervision and control of Independent Correctional Centre Visitors.
Complaints Management, general, Urgent and Mandatory. Coordination of
Visitors Committee/Stakeholder engagement meetings. Conduct performance
evaluations, administration tasks, reporting and arrange inductions for
Independent Correctional Centre Visitors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NP Sifesane Tel No: (043) 722 2729
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/27 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: JI 03/2025
Directorate: Management Regions
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Northern Management Region - Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 /Senior Certificate. 1-3 years
relevant working experience. Ability to communicate verbally and in writing.
Ability to work independently and also as part of a team. Ability to multi-task
20
and general administrative capabilities. Computer literate (Word, Excel,
Access, PowerPoint & Outlook). Driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to manage the support services
of the office. Assist with travel arrangements. Preparations for meetings.
Typing documents. Managing the assets at the Regional Office. Provide
general administrative support to the Regional Office. Ensure transport and
logistic support to the office. Reception duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/28 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK – AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: JI 04/2025
Directorate: Management Regions
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Northern Management Region - Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 /Senior Certificate. 1-3 years
relevant working experience. Ability to communicate verbally and in writing.
Ability to work independently and also as part of a team. Ability to multi-task
and general administrative capabilities. Computer literate (Word, Excel,
Access, PowerPoint & Outlook). Driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for reception duties and office
administration. Proper implementation and maintenance of approved filing
system. Handling of incoming and outgoing mail and phone calls. Management
of resources. Provide general administrative support to the Regional Office
(draft correspondence, manages calendars of senior team members and
arrange travel, etc.).
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/29 : HR PERSONNEL CLERK REF NO: JI 05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification. Experience in Office Administration. Computer Literate (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). Planning, organizing and negotiation skills. Ability
to work independently and as part of a team. Analytical and problem-solving
skills. Communication and listening skills. Time management skills. Conflict
management skills. Knowledge of PERSAL system will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide Human Resources
administrative support to the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services by
managing the leave. Managing the process of appointments and resignations
of staff members. Administration of staff benefits. Filing and updating of
personnel files. Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za. - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/30 : SECRETARY REF NO: JI 06/2025
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge
of administration/secretariat duties. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Computer literate with an excellent understanding of windows. MS Word,
Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Ability to work under pressure and willingness
to work overtime.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to serve as the
secretary/administrators to Director Corporate Services and Legal Services
Answering and screening of telephone calls. Liaise with the Director regarding
all administrative functions. Typing/compiling of memorandums and
presentations. Execute office and general administrative duties. Manage filing
and electronic documents tracking system. Maintain diary and manage
appointments. Acknowledge receipt of documents. Record and issue minutes.
21
Make all travel and accommodation arrangements. Ensure submission of travel
claims for the Directors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : HOrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post reference number
POST 17/31 : INDEPENDENT CORRECTIONAL CENTRE VISITOR
(36-month contract appointment)
SALARY : R85 620 per annum (3/8th, Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits.
CENTRE : Central Management Region:
Barkly West Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 07/2025
Bethulie Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 08/2025
Boshof Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 09/2025
Colesburg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 10/2025
Goedemoed Med. B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 11/2025
Groenpunt Med Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 12/2025
Grootvlei Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 13/2025
Grootvlei Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 14/2025
Harrismith Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 15/2025
Kimberly Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 17/2025
Kuruman Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 18/2025
Lindley Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 19/2025
Mangaung Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 20/2025
Odendaalsrus / Hennenman Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 21/2025
Richmond Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 22/2025
Regional Office – Bloemfontein Ref No: JI 23/2025
Richmond Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 24/2025
Sasolburg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 25/2025
Senekal Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 26/2025
Virginia Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 27/2025
Winburg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 28/2025
Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region:
Durban Female Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 29/2025
Empangeni Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 30/2025
Glencoe Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 31/2025
Ncome Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 32/2025
Pietermaritzburg (Med A) Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 33/2025
Port Shepston Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 34/2025
Qalakabusha Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 35/2025
Qalakabusha Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 36/2025
Vryheid Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 37/2025
Waterval Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 38/2025
Northern Management Region:
Barberton Farm Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 39/2025
Barberton Farm Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 40/2025
Baviaanspoort (Max) Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 41/2025
Carolina Correctional Centre Ref No: 42/2025
Ermelo Correctional Centre Ref No: 43/2025
Heidelberg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 44/2025
Johannesburg Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: 45/2025
Johannesburg Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 46/2025
Johannesburg Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 47/2025
Johannesburg Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 48/2025
Krugersdorp Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 49/2025
Kutama-Sinthumule Correctional Centre Ref No JI 50/2025
Leeuwkop Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: 51/2025
Leeuwkop Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 52/2025
Modimolle Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 53/2025)
Kgosi-Mampuru Central Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 54/2025
Kgosi-Mampuru Local Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 55/2025
Odi Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 56/2025
Christiana Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 57/2025
Litchenburg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 58/2025
Losperfontein Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 59/2025
Mafikeng Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 60/2025
Potchefstroom Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 61/2025
Rooigrond Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 62/2025
22
Rooigrond Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 63/2025
Klerskdorp Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 64/2025
Western Cape Management Region:
Brandvlei Juvenile Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 65/2025
Brandvlei Med Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 66/2025
Brandvlei Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 67/2025
Drakenstein Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 68/2025
Drakenstein Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 69/2025
George Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 70/2025
Goodwood Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 71/2025
Goodwood Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 72/2025
Oudtshoorn Med A&B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 73/2025
Pollsmoor Med C Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 74/2025
Pollsmoor RDF Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 75/2025
Pollsmoor RDF Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 76/025
Pollsmoor Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 77/2025
Pollsmoor Female Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 78/2025
Robertson Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 79/2025
Van Rhynsdorp Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 80/2025
Voorberg Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 81/2025
Voorberg Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 82/2025
Warmbokkeveld Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 83/2025
Worcester Male & Female Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 84/2025
Regional Office – Cape Town Ref No: JI 85/2025
Eastern Cape Management Region:
Bizana Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 86/2025
Burgersdorp Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 87/2025
Butterworth Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 88/2025
Cradock Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 89/2025
East London Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 90/2025
East London Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 91/2025
East London Med C Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 92/2025
Flagstaff Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 93/2025
Graaff-Reinet Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 94/2025
Grahamstown Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 95/2025
Kirkwood Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 96/2025
Lusikisiki Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 97/2025
Mdantsane Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 98/2025
Nqamakwe Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 99/2025
Patensie Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 100/2025
Sada Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 101/2025
Somerset East Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 102/2025
Ngcobo Correctional Centre Ref No: JI103/2025
Mount Fletcher Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 104/2025
St Albans Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 105/2025
St Albans Max Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 106/2025
St Albans Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 107/2025 (X2 posts)
Stutterheim Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 108/2025
Ntabankula Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 109/2025
Mthatha Medium Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 110/2025
Mthatha Medium Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 111/2025
Mthatha Remand Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 112/2025
Regional Office – East London Ref No: JI 113/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Computer
literate and accurate. A recommendation of nomination as an ICCV by a
community organization (not older than six (6) months) must be attached on
your application. Ability to work independently and as a team. Public spirited
and sound knowledge of the Batho Pele principles. Assertiveness and ability
to work under pressure. Ability to communicate (verbally and in writing).
Driver’s licence will be an added advantage. Preference will be given to
qualifying applications received from individuals residing in communities which
are in the vicinity of the correctional centre where the post needs to be filled.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible to visit the correctional facility
daily and engage with inmates and DCS officials on complaints and other
matters. Monitor the conditions of incarceration and report on findings. Monitor
and report on all instances of deaths, segregation, use of mechanical restraints
and use of force in the centre. Support officials from JICS during inspections
23
and investigations. Handle administrative tasks which include dealing with and
capturing of inmate complaints, mandatory matters and detailed report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Central Management Region: Ms Y Mdlalose Tel No: (051) 4301954
Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region: Mr. S Sibanyoni Tel No:(031) 366 1900
Northern Management Region: Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
Western Cape Management Region: Mr S Sani Tel No: (021) 421 1012
Eastern Cape Management Region: Ms N Sifesane Tel No: (043) 722 2729
APPLICATIONS : Central Management Region: CMRrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post
reference number
: Eastern Cape Management Region: ECMRrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject
– Post reference number
Western Cape Management Region: WCMRrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject
– Post reference number
Northern Management Region: NMRrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post
reference number
Central Management Region:KZNMRrecruitment@jics.gov.za - Subject – Post
reference number
24
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 June 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that
do not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical and
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National
School of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS
positions. Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be
required to undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into
consideration. Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with
Disabilities including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within
3 months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these
positions. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
preference will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Chief Master: Master of the High Court
and Family Law Services with Ref No: 24/32/MAS advertised on Public Service
Vacancy Circular 16 dated 16 May 2025 with closing date 02 June 2025 has
been withdrawn. We apologies for the inconvenience caused. Enquiries: Ms S
Maribeng Tel No: (012) 315 1103
OTHER POST
POST 17/32 : TATE ACCOUNTANT: TAXATION REF NO: 25/58/FMS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Management/Financial
Accounting/Taxation/Internal Audit as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3
years’ experience in Payroll environment; Knowledge of the Public Financial
Management Act, and budget management with National Treasury
Regulations. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word,
PowerPoint, Excel); Budgeting and financial management; Research and
analytical skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Problem analysis; Self-
management; Team membership; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render Tax administration services; Administer and
attend to salary related claims, related to overtime, acting allowances, payment
of casual interpreters, implementation of housing allowances, long service
awards and salary adjustment; Process subsistence and travel (S & T)
allowance claims; Process service termination transactions; Administer the
reconciliation/clearing of the Suspense account; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
25
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical address: Application
Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Street, Pretoria.
26
ANNEXURE G
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT
The Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) is a Government Component within the Ministry for
Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. It is a Schedule 3 entity regulated in terms of the Public
Service Act, 1994, as amended. MISA’s primary function is to support municipalities in infrastructure
planning implementation, operations, and maintenance. MISA invites suitable candidates to apply for the
following positions, based in MISA Head Office in Centurion, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : For All Applications: Applications must quote the relevant reference number
and consist of: A fully completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za/ ’’From 1 January 2021 should an application
be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be
considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone
numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application
but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified qualifications , only shortlisted
candidates will submit proof of permanent residence. All shortlisted candidates
for all posts will be subjected to personnel suitability checks on criminal
records, citizen verification, financial records, qualification. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interest
declaration within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. NB: For
more information please contact: Mr Nkosikhona Zuma/Ms Gugu Gumede Tel:
012 848 5364/5337/5401 / To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
2025 TO 2027 GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) invites South African unemployed graduate to apply for
the 2025/2027 MISA graduate Internship programme. Internship in the public service is a once off
opportunity per qualification. Those that have previously participated in an internship programme will
not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/33 : EXECUTIVE SUPPORT STRATEGY AND SYSTEMS INTERN REF NO:
MISA/ESSS/01 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: ESSS
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Public Administration. ND/
Degree in Office administration/ Management
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-esss-01@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/34 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY INTERN REF NO:
MISA/ICT/02 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: ICT
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Information Technology/
Computer Systems Engineering.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-ict-02@tttrecruitment.co.za
27
POST 17/35 : INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING DELIVERY AND MAINTENANCE INTERN
REF NO: MISA/IPDM/03 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: IPDM
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Public Administration. ND/
Degree in Office administration/ Management
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-ipdm-03@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/36 : FINANCE INTERN REF NO: MISA/FINANCE/04 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) ND/ Degree in Financial
Management
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-fin-04@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/37 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT INTERN REF NO: MISA/SCM/05 (X1
POST)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Logistics/ Public Admin/
Management/Public Procurement Management/ Supply Chain Management.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-scm-05@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/38 : INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE INTERN REF NO: MISA/ICC/06
(X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Accounting/Auditing/Internal
Audit/Risk Management
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-icc-06@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/39 : ASSET MANAGEMENT INTERN REF NO: MISA/ASSET/07 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Assets Management/ in
Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-asst-07@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/40 : SECURITY AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN REF NO: MISA/SFM/08
(X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: CSM
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) Degree in Security Management /
Criminology / Criminal Justice / Forensics / Safety Management /Policing
/Public Administration.
28
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-sfm-08@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 17/41 : COMMUNICATION INTERN REF NO: MISA/COMMS/09 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: CSM
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) Communication / Media Studies/
Journalism / Public Relations.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries to the T Recruitment, at 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to:
misa-com-09@tttrecruitment.co.za
29
ANNEXURE H
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-
Recruitment System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for
positions, we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an
applicant prove that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success.
The applicant’s profile on the e-Recruitment is equivalent to the newly
approved Z83 and it is the responsibility of applicants to ensure their profiles
are fully completed or their applications will not be considered, as per the DPSA
Practice Note. Certain documentation will still be required to be uploaded on
the system such as copies of all qualifications including National Senior
Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc., however these documents need not be
certified at point of application, however certification will be required prior to
attending the interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to two assessments. The first assessment will be a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, while the second
assessment will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of
which will be communicated by the Department. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
The status of your application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system.
However, if you have not received feedback from the National Treasury within
3 months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Note: The National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned
posts, withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. The
National Treasury is compliant to the requirements of POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/42 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPECIALISED AUDIT SERVICES REF NO: S003/2025
Division: Office of the Accountant-General (OAG)
Purpose: To provide performance audit and investigative capacity on a broad
range of financial management issues and procurement process in all spheres
of government (Regulatory).
SALARY : R1 436 022 - R1 716 933 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with a minimum B. Degree (NQF 7) in Auditing (Internal
or External), Forensic Investigation or Risk Management , A CIA (Certified
Internal Auditor), CA(SA), Forensic Practitioner - FP (SA) or Certified Fraud
Examiner (CFE) will be an added advantage, A minimum 5 years’ experience
at a senior managerial level (Director) obtained in Auditing, Forensic audits/
investigations, In-depth understanding of Business risk and risk management
techniques, Knowledge of Internal auditing standards, performance audit
standard code of ethics and certification, In-depth knowledge of corporate
governance, the role of audit committee, board, and executive and operating
management, Knowledge and experience of leading-edge audit department
practices, Forensic audit practices, new technologies and audit automation
30
tools, and experience in business process re-engineering, outsourcing, and co-
sourcing, Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Rectify breakdown of financial management in all spheres of Government:
Develop a flexible risk-based strategic and annual intervention plan, Aligned
with financial management objectives, risks or control concerns, Submit plan/
memos to Accountant-General for review and approval, Manage the
implementation and execution of the financial management intervention plan,
Approve appropriate tasks or projects requested by management and the
Accountant-General, Manage in-house staff and external service providers,
Assigned skilled auditors to perform engagement, Investigate fraud and
corruption in all spheres of Government: Develop a fraud and corruption
management framework for all spheres of government, Develop and
implement fraud and corruption investigation policy, strategy and methodology,
Manage and co-ordinate the execution of forensic investigations (fraud &
corruption), Assist clients in developing action plans to address causes of fraud
and corruption as identified during investigations and fraud risk assessments,
Co-ordinate and monitor actions taken against perpetrators and recovery of
losses, Conduct performance audits Evaluate and validate systems financially,
their institutional integrity and institutional performance in National, Provincial
& Local Government Institutions: Conduct performance audits by evaluating
the process/processes by which a government institution (or a component of
the institution) achieves its strategic and operational objectives with a view to
recommending actions to improve the economy, efficiency and effectiveness
of its operations, Evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in key
business processes and related risks (linked to the strategic objectives / risks
of a particular government institution), Evaluate internal controls within the
information technology system environment; ensure the validity, reliability and
security of information (Cyber security/ forensics), the assessment of the
information technology system environment, Report on findings and
recommend remedial steps where necessary and liaise with other organs of
state: Provide accurate reports to relevant stakeholders in respect of: Findings
and recommendations on how risks are being managed, Agreed on
management action plans, Accountability for the execution of management
action plans, Issue periodic reports to the Accountant-General summarizing
results of audit activities, report monthly to the Accountant-General on the
following: details of the activities for the preceding period, results of the reviews
undertaken and finalised during the preceding period, progress against the
approved annual intervention plan, including any deviations from the approved
plan.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 17/43 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES SERVICE DELIVERY REF NO:
S005/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide strategic leadership and guidance in the provision of an
integrated HR approach and to act as a primary point of connection between
all internal stakeholders/business units and the overall HR team for the
alignment on the HR strategic objectives and implementations of key HR
initiatives within the National Treasury
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum B. Degree (equivalent to NQF
7) in Human Resources Management/ Business Management/ Public
Administration/ HR Business Relations Management, A minimum 5 years’
experience at a middle management or senior managerial level obtained within
Human Resources Management environment or related field, Knowledge and
experience of the Public Service Human Resources Management Legislative
Framework, Knowledge and experience of the Public Service Act and
Regulations, Business Relations Skills in the HR environment, Knowledge of
Human Resources Information and application Systems, Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
31
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Strategy Development and Implementation: Develop and implement a Human
Resources Service Delivery Strategic implementation plan to fast-track the
turn-around time of human resources service offering pertaining to clients’
needs, Provide guidance and lobby internal support on the implementation of
the most effective mechanisms and tools to enhance collaboration and
cohesion for improved service delivery with regard to implementation of service
offerings, Review policies continuously for correct application in business and
in alignment with the HR Service Delivery Strategy in accordance with the ever-
evolving environment against the backdrop of the needs of clients, Develop,
engage and commit on the service level agreements by HR centres of
excellence with the HR Service Delivery Directorate. HR Service Delivery:
Provide guidance and direction on the effective implementation of HR offerings
and services to clients , Implement a collaborative strategy with regard to
service delivery provisioning and initiate projects in alignment with business
requirements, Verify the correctness of the application of HR Policies and
Procedures, continuously, prior to implementation of any new service offering
in alignment the relevant policies and procedures, Develop and apply a
customer centric service delivery culture within the National Treasury, Monitor
the effectiveness of the implementation of service offerings and align
discrepancies, accordingly. Stakeholder Engagement: Engage stakeholders
through awareness drives on new service offerings and their benefits prior to
implementation, Collaborate and enhancing partnerships with specialise
business units within HRM to determine, and fast-tracking deliverables and
targets for implementation, Align business plans with strategic objectives in
achievement of HR objectives and targets, Provide timeous feedback on
requests to stakeholder’s concerns pertaining to service offering , Ensure that
divisional HR Metrics are presented to divisional Exco/Manco and that focused
employee matters are proactively raised and attended to. HR Policy and
Prescribes Analysis: Align the HR Service delivery objectives with National
Treasury annual business plans to conform to business units demands,
Influence and obtain buy-in from stakeholders within business on HR initiatives
and offerings, Develop and analyse a comprehensive HR feedback analysis
desk board portraying service offerings and progress in support of business
continuity, Align memoranda on HR offerings and services for the smooth
implementation within the broader business, Develop and effectively
implement Secondment Guidelines to ensure strategic input to employee
engagement and retention, Ensure that Rotations Protocols are in place and
serve as employee engagement, development and retention.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 17/44 : DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: S004/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To plan and provide a strategic support function to the National
Treasury facility-related services in compliance with the demands of its
stakeholders and other relevant legislative requirements.
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with a minimum degree/advanced diploma (equivalent to
NQF level 7) in Administration or Facilities or Project Management or
Operations Management. A qualification in Built Environment or Property
Management will be an added advantage. A minimum 5 years’ experience at
a middle management or senior managerial level obtained within in the
management of facility related services. Knowledge of the Public Service
Framework. Knowledge and experience of property management principles.
Knowledge and experience of Accommodation and Office Space Planning.
Knowledge of Contract Management and the interpretation and
implementation of contracts with suppliers Systems, Successful completion of
the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
32
DUTIES : Stakeholder Management: Develop and implement a Facilities Management
Improvement Programme in line with the operational requirements of the
National Treasury. Review stakeholders Service Level Agreements
continuously to improve internal and external relationships with stakeholders.
Implement an improved problem resolution mechanism within the Facilities
Management environment to timeously address concerns. Perform research
on stakeholder analysis, identification and engagement in the development of
project and business requirements. Support the organization in achieving its
strategic objectives by interpret and influence both the external and internal
environments and creating positive relationships with stakeholders through the
appropriate management of their expectations and agreed objectives. Contract
Management: Oversee the contract management portfolio and implement clear
guidelines and specifications for execution. Monitor and review Service Level
Agreements continuously to improve relationships with stakeholders and
maintain service standards. Perform research on best practices in the contract
management environment to keep abreast with international practices.
Develop guidelines on Contract Management process utilisation and facilitate
awareness workshops in the organisation. Accommodation and Space
Planning: Plan the allocation of accommodation utilisation and monitor the
compliance pertaining to Occupational Health and Safety Standards. Monitor
Office Space Planning continuously and optimally exploit available space to
meet the needs of internal stakeholders. Interpret the property portfolio and
influence the internal environment through the appropriate accommodation
management and utilization. Perform research on best practices in
accommodation and space planning processes to keep abreast with
international practices. Resource Optimisation: Develop and implement
relevant policies, procedures and systems to comply with legislative
requirements. Enhance the utilisation of facilities through continuous
maintenance and interaction with service providers develop and implement a
Facilities Operational Plan aligned to Departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 17/45 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: S006/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide strategic guidance and align supply chain management
processes with the broader Supply Chain framework and interface and
synergise accountability performance and compliance of processes and
procedures.
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in any of the following disciplines: Logistics or Procurement or
Supply Chain Management, A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle
management or senior managerial level obtained in the broader Supply Chain
management environment, Knowledge and experience of the PFMA, PPPFA
and other relevant prescribes, Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
Demand Management, Risk and Performance Management processes,
Knowledge and experience in Contract Management, Bidding processes and
exposure of dealing with Travel Agencies, Knowledge and experience of
Procurement or Financial systems, Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Develop and implement a Procurement Reform Programme: Provide direction
and strategy in the establishment of proper processes and the application
thereof in business. Act as custodian for the development and maintenance of
Contract Management initiatives. Analyse historical purchasing costs,
forecasting future costs of prospective vendors through the Supplier
Management process, Implement and maintain the Demand Management
process in the National Treasury, Improved turnaround times in terms of
payments and bidding processes. Develop and maintain policies, processes
and systems for an open and transparent procurement process. Implement
Procurement reform in respect to PFMA &PPPFA Acts & regulations: Conduct
awareness initiatives and sensitise stakeholders on the impact of the PFMA &
33
PPPFA have on supply chain management in business, Develop and
implement PFMA & PPPFA guidelines for easy reference on all Procurement
processes, Initiate the implementation of SCM policy reforms and compliance,
Initiate research and benchmark exercises on supply chain best practices with
DPSA and other stakeholders. Supply Chain Management: Coordinate the
utilisation of SCM resources by optimally consulting with stakeholders on the
redress of service delivery improvements, Conduct strategic planning sessions
to key stakeholders and establish the development of the SCM vision, strategic
objectives and business plan in conjunction with the broader Departmental
plan, Develop and implement a balance score card for the assessment of the
performance of SCM stakeholders, Oversee the functions of all bid committees
and advice on corrective action. Stakeholder Engagement: Evaluate service
delivery initiatives against stakeholders and other business demands and
outputs, Consult with strategic partners and build relationships with key
business stakeholders on service delivery initiatives, Monitor supplier and
stakeholder performance in the Supply Chain Management environment in
compliance with set processes and procedures, Identify risks pertaining to
Supply Chain Management and implement processes and procedures to
mitigate risk factors. Travel Co-ordination & Management: Initiate meetings
with travel agencies and other relevant stakeholders on issues of mutual
concern. Negotiate market related deals on road and air travel with relevant
stakeholders on behalf of the National Treasury. Monitor outputs and identify
gaps for remedial action on agreed deliverables of contracted travel agency.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/46 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC SOURCING AND ACQUISITION REF
NO: S007/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To develop, review and implement the strategic sourcing strategies
in compliance with relevant policies, and perform research on spend analysis
in the development of a supply base on the categories of goods and services
identified in government’s spending portfolio, and identifying leverage points in
the reduction of costs and increased benefits and commodities. Administer and
manage the bidding process for good and services.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6)/ B. Degree (equivalent to NQF 7) in Logistics or Procurement or
Supply Chain Management (SCM) or Public Management, A minimum of 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in Acquisition or Bid management within the Supply Chain
Management environment, Experience in drafting and the analyses of
commercial contracts and service level agreements, Knowledge and
experience of regulations pertaining to the broader SCM legislative framework.
DUTIES : Demand Management: Collaborate information from business units to design
and develop the demand management and procurement plans, Monitor
available budgets in conjunction with stakeholders and advice on estimated
commitments, Verify submissions for correctness and in compliance with
prescribed legislative prerequisites, Evaluate the appropriateness of
transactions in terms of the PPPFA, its regulations other related legislations for
compliance, Manage procurement plans and report progress as per prescripts.
Bids Management: Compile draft business plans for engagement with
stakeholders and manage the bidding process. Refine bid specifications, terms
of reference, integrate the evaluation and assessment criteria and develop
special conditions for bids, Coordinate the bid specification, evaluation and bid
adjudication committee meetings. Ensure bidding procedures and prescripts
are adhered to, Maintain the bid register and report to management. Strategic
Sourcing: Compile spend analyses process to identify high spend commodities
and categorise items for sourcing strategies to enhance business
effectiveness, Identify key sourcing reviews and evaluate its impact on the
business to sensitise the market on the needs of business, Initiate the capacity
building process on identifiable categorised items and develop a projection
plan on business perception, Develop and implement strategic sourcing
34
policies, processes and procedures, Initiate awareness on strategic sourcing
and promote implementation of strategic sourcing practices within the broader
business. Stakeholders Engagement: Forge business relationships and
networking with suppliers to improve and widen sourcing items per category,
Update stakeholders on the latest trends applied in strategic sourcing in
compliance with the Financial Management Reporting framework. Provide
progress reports on the approved procurement plan, bids. Consult with
stakeholders and engage on risk factors of procurement.
ENQUIRIES : Enquires Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
35
ANNEXURE I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7,
Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor,
Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Durban/Pietermaritzburg/Provincial Service Centre:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application ton: The
Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4000
Application can also be hand delivered to Office of the Chief Justice, Human
Resource Management, 1st Floor, CNR Somtseu & Stalwart, Simelane
Streets, Durban.
Kimberley: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley,
8300. Applications can also be hand delivered to: The High Court, Sol Plaaitjie
Drive, Room B107, Kimberley.
Free State/ Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver
applications to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein
Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X20051,
Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to, Mpumalanga
Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial Service Centre,
311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
National Office (Midrand)/Constitutional Court: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand
deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource
Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
North West: Mmabatho/ Mahikeng: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered
to 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mmabatho.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive
CV only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must
be indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one
folder. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
36
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
ERRATUM: The post of Chief Registrar, Gauteng Division of the Hugh Court:
Johannesburg, advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 09 May
2025 with a closing dated of 23 May 2025 have been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/47 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/105/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidates will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years' post graduate legal
experience gained as a Registrar. Computer literacy, leadership and
managerial experience. A valid driver's license. An LLM Degree will serve as
an added advantage. Skills and competencies: Excellent communication skills
(verbal and written). Report writing skills. Numerical skills. Technical expertise.
Attention to detail. Planning, organizing and control. Problem solving and
decision-making skills. Customer service orientated. Interpersonal skills.
Conflict management skills. Strong work ethic and motivation. Self-
management. Professional appearance and conduct. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court. Management of time and events necessary to move cases
from initiation through to disposition. Make inputs on amendments of court
rules and practice directives to improve efficiency at the Supreme Court of
Appeal. Implement directives issued by the President of the Supreme Court of
Appeal. Manage implementation of the Departmental Strategic Objectives
relating to the processing of cases within the Case Flow Management
Framework at the Supreme Court of Appeal. Compile training manuals and
provide training to registrars and registrars' clerks. Support staff. Stakeholder
Management, Human Resources Management, Court and Case Flow
Management/Quasi-Judicial functions. Manage Sen./ice Level Agreement,
Framework. Managing Strategic Court Efficiency Projects and Best Practices,
Information and Case/Court Documentation Management System. Safeguard
case records in accordance and prescripts. Achieve excellence in delivering
planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service levels and standards) for the
37
Department and monitoring the unit's service delivery in order to achieve the
service delivery targets. Ensure the highest level of customer care and
customer satisfaction. Manage all administration related functions. Supervise
and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8584
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/105/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/48 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY REF NO: 2025/91/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate and a three-year National Diploma in Security Management
and or Risk Management or equivalent relevant qualification at NQF level 6
with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA. Grade A State Security Agency
Course. A minimum of three (3) years’ working experience in a security
environment of which 1 year should be on supervisory level. A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office). Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Good people skills/interpersonal
relations. General office and project management skills. Planning and
organisation skills. Exceptional report writing skills. Problem solving skills.
Ability to work independently and meet deadlines. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide management of the total security function (personnel, document,
physical assets, contingency planning and security planning) of the Office of
the Chief Justice and linked institutions. Implement the OCJ’s Security and
Risk Management policies. Development and implementation of appropriate
security measures and procedures. The development and implementation of
training and awareness programmes. Interaction with security-related and
relevant authorities including government departments (State Security Agency,
Comsec, DOJCD, etc.). Manage the private security service provider and
ensure compliance with the applicable service level agreement(s). Facilitate
internal and external audits and ensure that the office is ready with regard to
security and risk management matters. Supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR Related Enquiries: Ms N Naidoo Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/91/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/49 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/92/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and a three-year National Diploma/ in Human Resource
Management/ Public Administration/Public Management, Personnel
Management or equivalent relevant qualifications at NQF level 6 with 360
credits as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource Management environment of which 1 year should be on
supervisory level, Knowledge of PERSAL. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit PERSAL certificates/results. Extensive experience in Leave
& Personnel Administration will be an added advantage. A driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act.
1994, Knowledge of Public Service Regulation 2016, Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Knowledge of
HRM policies, Knowledge of HR related standards, practices, processes and
procedure, Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, Knowledge of PERSAL
system. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
38
DUTIES : Implement efficient and effective recruitment and selection processes Ensure
the administration of condition of service and benefit, Implement Performance
Management and Development System and training initiatives, Ensure and
implement labour relations matters and EHW programmes, Ensure the
provision of efficient and effective provision of HR records management
services. Supervise and develop staff
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Ms L Wymers Tel No: (053) 492 3533
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/92/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/50 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/95/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour Appeals Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification.
Driver’s license. MR3 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4 - LLB Degree or
equivalent plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal
profession. MR5 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in legal profession). Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Numerical skills, Attention to detail, Planning, organizing and decision-making
skills, Customer service orientated, Interpersonal skills, Conflict management,
strong work ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting
of deadlines, result driven, honesty/trustworthy and Observance of
confidentiality. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management support process to the Judiciary.
Manage the issuing of all processes. Initiating Court proceedings. Co-ordinate
interpreting services, appeals and reviews. Authenticate signatures of Legal
Practitioners, Notaries and Sworn Translators. Supervision and management
of staff. Ensure annotation of relevant publications, codes, acts and rules.
Attend to and execute requests from the Judiciary in connection with cases and
case-related matters. Exercise control over the management and safekeeping
of case records and the record room. Deal with the files in terms of the relevant
codes and legislation. Execute Quasi-judicial indicators such as Taxation of the
Bill of Costs and Warrants of Execution. Collate statistical data for reporting
purposes and prepare court performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/95/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/51 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/96/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 –R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of the High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, no experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Job knowledge. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility. Teamwork.
Planning and organisation skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). General
Administration / Court related functions regarding court recordings. Good
customer services.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings. Render
proper recording of court proceedings. Perform collection of statistic. Provide
39
administrative support as required by the Court Manager and/or Registrar
and/or Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Can be sent via email at 2025/96/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/52 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/97/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of the High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, no experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge of registry
processes and practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment, Knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail
procedure manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National
archives. Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication skills,
Numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time
management skills, Administrative skills. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings. Proper
recording of Court proceedings. Perform playback events during or after the
session. Attend to general administrative functions for court administration.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
NOTE : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/97/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/53 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2025/99/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of the High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. A three-year relevant qualification (NQF6) within records
management will serve as an added advantage. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving skills. Administrative skills. Good public relation skills.
Time Management skills. Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer literacy
skills (Microsoft Teams). Planning and organizing skills. Report writing skills.
Typing skills. Understanding of confidentiality in Government. Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing Public Service.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organize, store, capture and
retrieve correspondences and data. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Process travel
and subsistence claims for the manager and members of the unit. Provide
administrative support services. Provide logistical arrangements to meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms JM Shongwe Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR related enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr Mv Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/99/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
40
POST 17/54 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS REF NO:
2025/100/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. An understanding of the functioning of
Commissions or Tribunals and working in the Judicial environment would be
an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Interpersonal and diplomacy
skills. Computer literacy skills. Analytical skills. Decision-making skills.
Motivational skills. Presentation skills. Communication and report writing skills.
Customer service orientation. Self-management. Creative thinking. Teamwork.
Flexible. Self-motivated. Knowledge of the relevant legislation and prescripts
in relation to the judiciary environment. Knowledge of clerical duties. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To provide support with the administrative functions in the Office of the Judicial
Service Commission. Prepare files for the sifting committee, Judge President,
Commission, and Premiers. Provide support with the administrative functions
to the members of the Commission, Public, and Stakeholders. Prepare a
comprehensive list of short-listed candidates and send to the Judges
Presidents, Organised Legal Profession, and members of the JSC. Provide
support for administrative functions in the Office of the JSC after the sitting of
the commission. Facilitate correspondence with the candidates about the
outcomes of the interviews. Provide logistical support to the JSC, JCC, and
JCT. Facilitate and ensure logistics for JSC April and October sittings.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mrs. M Songca Tel No: (010) 493 2075
HR related enquiries: Mr. K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/100/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/55 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: COMPLAINTS REF NO: 2025/101/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. An understanding of the functioning of
Commissions or Tribunals and working in the Judicial environment would be
an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Interpersonal and diplomacy
skills. Computer literacy skills. Analytical skills. Decision-making skills.
Motivational skills. Presentation skills. Communication and report writing skills.
Customer service orientation. Self-management. Creative thinking. Teamwork.
Flexible. Self-motivated. Knowledge of the relevant legislation and prescripts
in relation to the judiciary environment. Knowledge of clerical duties. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To maintain the complaints register. Receive and register complaints lodged
against Judges. Provide secretariat support services to the Judicial Conduct
Committee (JCC). Communicate the outcome of the appeal to the Appellant
and Respondent. Receive correspondence regarding litigation against the
Judicial Service Commission. Provide logistical support to the JSC, JCC, and
JCT. Prepare VA forms for travel arrangements and accommodation for
members of the Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mrs. M Songca Tel No: (010) 493 2075
HR related enquiries: Mr. K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Can be sent via email at 2025/101/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
41
POST 17/56 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL REF
NO: 2025/102/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : National Office, Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving skills. Good public relation skills. Monitoring and
analytical skills. Computer literacy skills (Microsoft Teams). Planning and
organizing skills. Report writing skills. Typing skills. Understanding of
confidentiality in Government. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing Public
Service.
DUTIES : Provide administrative-related activities to the unit. Schedule and organize
meetings for the unit. Render clerical support services within the Office of the
Secretary General. Handle all incoming and outgoing office correspondence
and follow up on outstanding matters. Maintain effective filing and records
management services. Distribute documents and packages to their respective
units. Render logistical arrangements for meetings. Ensure the venue,
equipment, and any other logistical arrangements required for meetings are
available and functional.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms S Mpheshwa Tel No: (010) 493 2535
HR related enquiries: Mr. K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/102/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/57 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INSTITUTIONAL SECRETARIAT SERVICES
REF NO: 2025/103/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving skills. Good public relations skills. Monitoring and
analytical skills. Computer literacy skills (Microsoft Teams). Planning and
organizing skills. Report writing skills. Typing skills. Understanding of
confidentiality in Government. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service.
DUTIES : To provide support in planning of the Judiciary governance structure and the
OCJ’s governance structure meetings. Prepare corporate calendar. Render
governance and secretariat support services. Perform the general secretariat
function. Render secretarial support services within the Directorate:
Institutional Secretariat Services. Manage the Director’s office. Provide
administrative-related activities to the unit. Maintain a leave register for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms S Mpheshwa Tel No: (010) 493 2535
HR related enquiries: Mr. K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/103/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
42
POST 17/58 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/104/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : North West Division of the High Court: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (Microsoft Office).
Typing skills (speed 35 words per minute). Dictaphone typing skills. Good
problem-solving skills. Effective communication skills (written and verbal).
Time management skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Knowledge of
legal terminology, court procedures, rules, and environment. Understanding of
legislative governing the Public Service (Batho Pele principles and Public
Service Regulations). Ability to work in a team. Reliability. Honesty and
integrity.
DUTIES : Type court orders, court documents, and reports. Type court orders and
relevant court documents in line with the endorsement on the front of the court
file. Type judgments. Make amendments on judgments as per the Judge’s
request/instruction. Compile term roll, week, and un/opposed motion roll and
maintain registers. Draft term rolls for each court term in line with the Gazette
terms. Compile and submit relevant orders and judgments to relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064
HR related enquiries: Ms K Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114
Applications can be sent via email at 2025/104/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
43
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed.
CLOSING DATE : 09 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.’’ From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
(1) a technical exercise; (2) a generic managerial competency assessment;
and (3) personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification,
financial records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected
to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interests declaration
form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. Note: Prior to
appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/59 : DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY SATISFACTION ASSESSMENT AND
IMPROVEMENT REF NO: DPSA 07/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 433 355 per annum is
possible, subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employee Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured according to
personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Public Administration / Management
/ Business Studies or equivalent qualification within the above-mentioned fields
as recognised by SAQA. Minimum 5 years at Middle/ Senior management.
Minimum 8 years’ appropriate experience in Service Delivery Improvement
environment. Knowledge of Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Government legislative frame, Public Service legislative and policy
frameworks, Government programs such as the National Development Plan,
Key Strategic Priorities of Government and Understanding of Operations
44
Management. Attributes: Honesty, loyalty, reliability, accountability, optimism
and resilience. Managerial Skills: Written and verbal communication,
stakeholder management and coordination, strategic thinking and leadership,
teamwork, confidentiality, research and change management. Generic Skills:
Diversity Management, Communication and information management,
Facilitation, Negotiation, Presentation, Report writing, Computer Literacy and
Conflict Management. Technical Skills: Development of service standards,
service delivery theory and practice, negotiation, business process analysis
and solution development specifications, business processing mapping and
improvement for automation or innovation, and system thinking, design and
development.
DUTIES : Lead the strategic development, refinement and institutionalisation of
prescripts relating to Service Delivery Satisfaction Assessment and
Improvement across the public service. Manage the provision of
implementation support to departments. Manage monitoring and evaluation of
compliance and impact assessments of prescripts on Service Delivery
Satisfaction and Improvement. Manage all the operations, systems and
processes of the Directorate. Provide technical advice, support and capacity
building to support the implementation of Service Delivery Improvement Plans,
public Service Charter and Service Standards. Provide support to the
Negotiation Team in the PSCBC on the institutionalisation of the Public Service
Charter and the Resolutions. Manage the Directorate’s strategic planning,
performance management, human and financial resources. Manage all the
operations, systems, and processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sibongile Moremi Tel No: (012) 336 1167
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert072025@dpsa.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 17/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BATHO PELE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA
08/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 055 958 is possible,
subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured according to
personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior certificate, a B. Degree in Public Administration or equivalent
qualification within the above-mentioned field as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum of 3 years’ experience at an Assistant Director level. Minimum of 3-5
years of appropriate experience in a Service Delivery Improvement
environment. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
government legislative frameworks, public service legislative frameworks, key
strategic priorities of government, data and information analysis, Attributes:
Management support, communication, in depth knowledge and understanding,
good presentation skills, teamwork, change management skills,
professionalism, interpersonal relations, good writing skills, reliability, and
technical skills. Managerial Skills: Problem-solving skills, written and verbal
communication, comprehension, teamwork, change management skills,
professional relations, good writing skills, stakeholder management skills,
teamwork and team cooperation, research skills, and project management
skills. Generic Skill: Decision making skills, diversity management,
communication and information management skills, facilitation skills,
presentation skills, report writing skills, and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : To develop frameworks, toolkits, and policies to implement the Batho Pele.
Manage the implementation of the Batho Pele programmes and the
development of the Batho Pele standards. Facilitate and coordinate the Batho
Pele learning and institutional Programme. Manage the implementation of the
Batho Pele programme and development of the Batho Pele Standards. Monitor
the implementation of the Batho Pele programs in the national and provincial
departments. Conduct research on the stats of Batho Pele implementation in
45
the public service and provide recommendations. Conduct advocacy and
development sessions on the development of Batho Pele standards. Establish
strategic partnerships with stakeholders on the advancement of Batho Pele
learning and institutional development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.S. Moremi Tel No: (012) 336 1167
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert082025@dpsa.gov.za
46
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one
advertised post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in
respect to each post being applied for. Should an application be received
where an applicant has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83
application form, the applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on
the Z83 application form only. Applications will be received via post/courier
services, hand deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered.
Regulation 57 (c) and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as
amended, requires the executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully
satisfied of the claims being made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability
Checks in order to verify claims and check the candidate for purpose of being
fit and proper for employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be
willing to undergo normal vetting and verification processes. NOTE: It is the
responsibility of all applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated
by SAQA. Due to large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from
the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource
Management and Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume
1 a requirement for appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National
School of Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the
name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by
following the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-
entry programme/.note :For emailed applications, please submit a Single
document or One Attachment per application to the email address designated
for the specific position. Kindly Note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not Exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility
to ensure that their application is successfully submitted. Although an email
application option is available, applicants are encouraged to hand deliver their
application.
ERRATUM: The position of Deputy Director-General: Corporate Services with
Ref No: 2025/21 as advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated
09 May 2025 with the closing date of 23 May 2025, limited submission of
applications via email and omitted to provide the options to submit applications
by hand delivery and post. In this regard applications can be submitted to: The
47
Director-General, Department of Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001
or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria OR email to:
Recruitment25-01@dpw.gov.za. As a result, the closing date is extended to 06
June 2025. For Attention: Ms NP Mudau.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/61 : CHIEF ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/22
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering (B. Eng. or BSC. Eng.) with six (06)
years relevant post-qualification experience in various facets of Electrical
engineering. Compulsory registration as a Professional Engineer with ECSA/
knowledge of Electrical engineering best practices and aspects of the building
and construction environment, extensive knowledge of and experience in the
development, implementation and oversight of recovery plans when projects
are lagging. Knowledge of PFMA, OHSA, Supply chain management, Contract
Management, Good technical and innovative problem-solving abilities.
Computer literacy and experience in the application of Electrical Engineering
software in the use of dashboards to track progress, Good interpersonal skills
and negotiation skills. Applied knowledge of all Built environment
legislatives/regulating requirements. Excellent writing and presentation skills.
A valid driver’s license and the ability/willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide technical lead in proposal preparations, define technical resources
requirements for successful work execution, perform final review and approval
or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles, set
maintenance standards specifications and service levels according to
organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Compile
risk logs and manage significant risk and provide technical consulting services
for the operation on engineering related matters, Allocate, control, monitor
expenditure according to budget, check tender documentation for inviting
tenders. Monitor the performance of and exercise control over appointed
consultants in connection with the design and execution of work, as well as
maintenance to existing structures and infrastructure and scrutinize and
approve fee accounts of consulting engineers. Mentor, train and develop
candidates and related technical personnel to promote skills/knowledge
transfer. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Sewada Tel No: (012) 310 5030
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand Deliver to AVN
Building corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria. Or email to:
RecruitPTA25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Tlhapane/ Ms. MC. Lekganyane
POST 17/62 : CHIEF CIVIL ENGINEER (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/23
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering degree in Civil engineering (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant
qualification with six (06) years post qualification experience. Valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with ECSA/Relevant council as a Professional
Engineer. Knowledge: Various facets of Civil Engineering practice, including
knowledge of construction methods, techniques and system applied in full
spectrum of the Civil Engineering profession. Knowledge of contract building
law to the extent applied in the profession. All aspects of the building
Engineering design and analysis, engineering operational communication,
process knowledge maintenance knowledge, to extent applied in the
profession. Technical consulting. A good understanding and competence in the
context of the built environment. Legislative and legal aspects of built
environment developments and informed decision-making. Knowledge and
understanding of National Government’s strategic visions and goals as well as
Provincial and Local Government strategies and policies. Knowledge of the
real estate industry and asset management is advantageous. Experience in
48
conducting Feasibility Studies would be advantageous as well as knowledge
in the Real Estate Industry and Asset Management. Skills: Well-developed
project management, analytical, planning, legal compliance, interpersonal,
communication, executive report-writing and presentation skills as well as
computer literacy. Must be an innovative and creative thinker, resourceful,
people orientated, assertive, hard-working and self-motivated, be able to use
Professional judgment in decision making and be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : To lead and manage the technical aspects of Civil Engineering projects within
the Built Environment, oversee design, construction and maintenance of
infrastructure. Champion the conceptualization and detailed designs of in-
house projects within the Durban regional Office of DPWI PMTE. Mentor the
candidate engineers. Provide technical support to Project Managers in
evaluating effectiveness and \ efficiency of solutions offered by Consultants.
Evaluate construction activities and to ensure that the consultants design(s)
are executed and performed to acceptable standards. Maintain operational
agreements between Client Departments and the National Department of
Public Works, ensuring compliance to the requirements of the relevant Acts.
Review, analyse and evaluate state owned facilities, specification drawings
and details against industry best practice norms as applicable to new,
rehabilitation and/or maintenance projects. Evaluate facilities / buildings to
determine if they conform to industry acceptable norms, standards and
specifications. Identify the risks associated with different types/categories of
buildings and the construction thereof. Provide technical input, guidance and
interpretation of feasibility studies on various projects. Advise and identify
innovative alternative solutions to promote sustainability and cost effectiveness
in buildings. Make recommendation on value enhancing strategies for the
government property portfolio. Project manages the compilation of feasibility
study reports within a multidisciplinary team and according to given time
frames. Make forecast on the performance of state fixed assets while
considering micro and macro-economic policies and the impact thereof on
state investment and the property industry. Assess the financial and socio-
economic benefits for all property investment / disinvestment option. Apply
policies, methods, best practices and standards well as ensure compliance
with Departmental requirements and legislation. Identify technical and
functionality solutions and market trends and risk for specified portfolio and
project solutions. Provide inputs into the development of business processes
and guidelines for making sound investment decisions. Executive report
writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mbhele Tel No: (031) 314 7163
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. Or email to: RecruitDBN25-
01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 17/63 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LARGE PROJECTS (EPWP) REF NO: 2025/24
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Civil engineering, Quantity
Surveying, Construction Management. Relevant years of experience in the
construction industry, with at least three (3) at Junior managerial level
(Assistant Director equivalent). Knowledge of the working of government and
the Expanded Public Works Programme. Knowledge of different forms of
contracts, including their application to government contracts. Knowledge of
labour-intensive construction methods. Knowledge of Management
Information Systems. Financial management and knowledge of the PFMA and
DORA. Advanced technical, report writing and presentation skills. Analytical
and innovative thinking skills. Project Management skills. Driving licence. The
position requires extensive travelling, and the candidate must be able and
willing to travel. More experience than specified will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assist public bodies to identify infrastructure projects/programmes for the
application of EPWP principles. Advocate for public bodies to adopt labour
intensive approaches in designing infrastructure projects to optimise job
creation. Assist public bodies in setting work opportunity targets and develop
plans to meet those targets. Liaise with relevant stakeholders to ensure buy-in
49
and participation in EPWP. Facilitate labour-intensive capacity-building
workshops. Create an enabling environment for SMME participation on
infrastructure projects. Carry out labour-intensity analysis of different
infrastructure projects. Compile progress reports on the technical support
provided to public bodies. Facilitate reporting of work opportunities created on
infrastructure projects on the EPWP reporting system. Facilitate identification
of project/programme training needs and training of EPWP participants.
Conduct site and public body visits to monitor EPWP compliance. Assist in
managing the component's budget, including compiling budget reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Manyisane Tel No: (012) 492 1433
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/64 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING EPWP REF NO: 2025/25
Chief Directorate: EPWP Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Information Systems,
Development Studies, Public Administration, or equivalent qualification in
related field. Relevant years’ experience in the relevant field at a Junior
managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). Knowledge: Knowledge of
poverty alleviation programmes of government. Extensive knowledge of EPWP
reporting requirements and systems employed. Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines. Proficiency in Ms Excel spreadsheets & Sound numerical
and analytical acumen. A Valid drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel
extensively. Skills: Advanced report writing. Strong interpersonal,
communication, facilitation and presentation skills. Digital literacy. Project
management.
DUTIES : Lead the development and implementation of EPWP capacity building
frameworks and interventions across all spheres of government. Develop
guidelines and manuals to enhance consistent and accurate reporting across
all stakeholders. Coordinate training programmes and technical support to
enhance capabilities for effective EPWP reporting. Monitor and evaluate the
impact of capacity building initiatives and recommend improvements. Provide
support on system related audit queries, ensuring timely response,
documentation, and compliance with audit standards and departmental
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Maluleke Tel No: (012) 492 1465
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/65 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATABASES EPWP REF NO: 2025/26
Chief Directorate: EPWP Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Information Management,
Data Science, Monitoring & Evaluation, Statistics. Relevant functional work
experience in data management or analysis, Monitoring and evaluation,
performance reporting, database and information systems management at a
Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). Knowledge: Expanded
Public Works Programme, EPWP reporting requirements; Prescripts governing
the EPWP Skills: Data analysis and visualization tools, Data governance and
quality assurance standards, Sound numerical and analytical acumen,
advanced report writing, strong interpersonal and communication skills.
Presentation. Willingness to adapt to a working schedule in accordance with
office requirements. Willingness to travel for work purposes. Valid driver’s
License.
DUTIES : Develop and publish EPWP performance reports for various stakeholders,
ensuring alignment with reporting timeframes. Promote data quality across all
50
EPWP sectors by facilitating data quality forums, implementing validation
checks, conducting verification exercises, and offering technical support to
reporting public bodies. Extract and analyse EPWP data from single or multiple
data sources to generate accurate insights. Prepare presentations for use at
national, provincial and municipal EPWP coordination forums,
intergovernmental platforms, and strategic meetings. Provide support on data-
related audit queries, ensuring timely response, documentation, and
compliance with audit standards and departmental procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Maluleke Tel No: (012) 492 1465
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-04@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/66 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROPERTY VALUATION SERVICES REF NO:
2025/27
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Real Estate (Property
Valuations) plus appropriate relevant experience in property valuations at a
Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). Registration with the
South African Council of Valuers (in terms of the Property Valuers Profession
Act, 2000 (Act 47 of 2000) as a Professional Valuer. A valid unendorsed
driver’s license. Knowledge of valuation of all types of properties and applicable
legislation such as the Constitution of RSA, PFMA, GIAMA, MPRA, Property
Valuation Act 14 of 2017, Expropriation Act 63 of 1975 (as amended) and
project planning. Effective communication, advanced report writing, computer
literacy, planning and organizing, diplomacy, interpersonal problem solving
and presentation skills. Innovative, creative, hardworking, self-motivated,
ability to work under pressure, ability to communicate at all levels, analytical
thinking, conflict resolution and self-starter. Willingness to work long hours and
adapt to work schedules in accordance with professional requirements.
DUTIES : Management of valuation projects and undertake ad hoc valuation of properties
as and when delegated by the Director Valuation Services. Provide competitive
and credible valuations. Compile fully motivated valuation reports for
submission and assessment by the Land Affairs Board and liaise with the
Board on valuation matters. Review and contest municipal valuations on state
owned properties lodge objections where necessary to enable savings on
municipal rates levied. Undertake valuations that comply with Accounting
Standards, in the compilation of an accurate, reliable and GRAP complaint
Asset Register. Conduct International Valuations on behalf of the State,
represent the Department in valuation disputes. Provide input into the
appointment of private valuers. Consider and comment on valuations received
from both private and internal valuers. Assist in driving the mentorship
Programme for candidate valuers and associated initiatives. Promote the
interest of the valuers’ profession in general.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Ndlovu Tel No: (012) 406 1888
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/67 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPWP TECHNICAL SUPPORT REF NO: 2025/28
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Civil Engineering; A relevant
management experience at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent). Valid driver’s license. The candidate must have Knowledge of the
Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP), construction Industry,
programme and project management, Experience in Labour-intensive methods
of construction; Knowledge of the structure and functioning of the department
and government; Ability to communicate at all levels; Ability to meet tight
deadlines whilst delivering excellent results; possess analytical and good
51
interpersonal skills; Ability to work independently. Willing to travel. Willing to
adapt to a work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Assist with management of the provision of technical support to all national
departments and State-Owned Enterprises implementing Infrastructure
projects to ensure compliance with EPWP prescripts. Ensure implementation
of the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) projects in the
Infrastructure Sector, providing assistance in the following: selection of suitable
projects, design of projects promoting the use of labour-intensive methods,
setting of targets, development of EPWP policies. Liaison with various National
Departments like; Department of Human Settlements, Department of Water
and Sanitation, Department of Energy and Electricity, Waterboards, ESKOM,
to ensure that adequate technical support is provided to national departments
and SOEs in the implementation of EPWP projects. Provide assistance to
national departments and SOEs in quarterly reporting on the EPWP Reporting
System. Provide assistance on the implementation of the EPWP Integrated
Grant. Ensure monthly technical support reports are submitted timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Tiya Tel No: (012) 492 1408
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/68 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROPERTY DISPOSAL REF NO: 2025/29
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Property Management,
Town and Regional Planning and Property Law, relevant experience in
Property Management (Property Disposals or Utilization and Contract
Administration (UCA)) at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent). Valid driver’s license. Knowledge of GIAMA, State Land Disposal
Act, Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Act, Public Financial
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management
Framework, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework, procurement
directives and procedures and Government budget procedures. Computer
literacy. Time management skills, Effective Communication, diplomacy and
negotiation skill. People management, coaching and mentoring skills.
Presentation and report-writing skills. Planning, organizing and facilitation
skills. Problem-solving skills. Willingness to adapt to work schedule in
accordance with professional requirements. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage short term and long term or permanent disposals of fixed assets. Co-
ordinate and facilitate the process of identifying superfluous properties to be
disposed of. Manage the prioritization of assets to be disposed of. Develop and
implement strategies to guide the disposal of State immovable properties.
Establish the ownership of properties to be disposed of. Ensure that no
property disposal infringes on the National Land Reform Programme. Manage
the transfer of ownership of immovable assets disposed of. Ensure compliance
with Departmental policies on disposal. Manage financial processes on the
disposal of fixed assets. Assist in the valuation of properties to be disposed of.
Manage the compilation of budget inputs. Compile and present budget review
reports on property disposals. Manage the recovery of State funds. Oversee
and ensure timeous payments of consultants and related fees. Prepare and
present quarterly projections to the Supply Chain Management. Attend to the
resolution of audit queries. Manage the Property Disposal Section effectively.
Prepare and present progress reports. Manage human resource-related
processes. Assist in the tender administration of properties to be disposed of.
Manage project contracts. Liaise and interact with stakeholders. Assist the
Branch with any duties as delegated or required by management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mathivha Tel No: (012) 310 5027
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand Deliver to AVN
Building corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria. Or email to:
RecruitPTA25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Tlhapane/ Ms. MC. Lekganyane
52
POST 17/69 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/30
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Built Environment
(Mechanical Engineering /Electrical Engineering/Building/Construction
Management/Structural Engineering/Quantity Survey, Facilities Management
and Property/Real Estate Management, and appropriate relevant experience
in Property Management, Construction Management, Integrated Facilities
Management or Programme Management with relevant experience in the built/
facilities management environment at a Junior managerial level (Assistant
Director equivalent). A valid Driver’s license. Knowledge: Occupational Health
and Safety Act and other building regulations, General built environment
including mechanical, electrical and civil, Water Services Act and National
Environmental Management Act (NEMA), Horticultural processes/regulations
and Cleaning Industry. Public Financial Management Act, Supply Chain
Management framework, directives and procedures; Government Budget
processes and procedures. Skills: Computer Literacy, Financial skills, Time
management, Administration skills, People management, Negotiation skills,
Coaching and mentoring, Presentation skills, Report writing skills, Planning
and organising, Diplomacy skills, Problem solving, Facilitation skills, Effective
communication, Patient, Understanding, Trustworthy, Dependable, Innovative,
Hardworking, Analytical Thinking, Ability to work under pressure, Self-
motivated, Creative.
DUTIES : To ensure effective and efficient facilities management, including civil,
mechanical, and electrical and water care Facilities, and compliance with the
relevant Acts including Occupational health and Safety Act. Effective and
efficient management of Cleaning and Horticultural services. To ensure
resource efficiency in state owned buildings. The implementation of
procurement policies-co-ordinate the preparation, analysis, negotiation and
review of contracts related to purchase of equipment and services. Monitor the
maintenance of facilities and compilation of reports. Provide guidance on the
implementation of the policy; monitor and evaluate the impact and
effectiveness of the policies; provide continuous feedback on compliance with
policy. Ensure the promotion of black emerging enterprises. The effective
supervision of resources-oversee the development and training of staff;
supervise the budget expenditure of Facilities Management sub-units
(Cleaning Services/Horticulture/ OHS and Workshop); direct preparation of
financial statements and report on status of State Facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Zulu Tel No: (051) 408 7306
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300. Or email to:
RecruitBLOEM25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
POST 17/70 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
2025/31
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Real Estate Management,
Property Management, Financial management, Management sciences or Law
Degree or related qualification with relevant experience in the property
management at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent).
Extensive experience in State land administration and verification of
immovable assets (land and buildings) will be an added advantage. Valid
driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Knowledge: Broad Based Black
Economic Empowerment Act, Public Finance Management Act, GIAMA,
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management framework, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework, State Land Disposal Act, Procurement
directives and procedures. Government Budget procedures. Skills: Computer
Literacy, Time management, People management, Negotiation skills,
Coaching and mentoring, Presentation skills, Report writing skills, Planning
and organising, Diplomacy, Problem solving, Facilitation skills, Effective
53
communication. Personal Attributes: Trustworthy, Dependable, Innovative,
Hardworking, Analytical Thinking, Ability to work under pressure, Self-
motivated and Creative.
DUTIES : Manage the Regional property portfolio, oversee the rentals for both Lease-in
and lease-out, do monthly reconciliation to ensure accurate rental
paid/received. Co-ordinate with other units to recover over payments and non-
payments. Ensure effective and efficient state property information
management. Verify confirmation of funds from client departments. Make
findings regarding offices and procured accommodation. Support the
inspection and selection of suitable accommodation according to the
requirements of client departments. Support in negotiating terms and condition
of contracts and leases. Compile monthly reports regarding procured
properties. Provide inputs on the functional negotiation processes. Ensure
lease agreements are within industry trends. Ensure optimal procurement
practices are followed for all properties. Conduct component’s monthly report
meetings. Administrate employment related processes and staff reports of the
section. Compile budget and expenditure reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-10@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 17/71 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER REF NO: 2025/32
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Commerce, Property
Management, Built Environment, Asset Management, Business
Administration, Public Administration or equivalent. Extensive relevant
experience in State land administration and verification of immovable assets
(land and buildings) at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent). Experience in managing projects. Valid drivers licence.
Willingness to travel. Excellent inter-personal Skills and Presentation Skills.
Negotiation, Communication and networking Skills. Ability to work under
pressure and deadline driven. Advanced MS Office Skills. Proven Skills in MS
Project or similar tool skills is an added advantage. Prioritizing and managing
workflow and to be outcome orientated. Use initiative but be flexible, energetic
and able to act with authority. Provide support to Programme Managers. Good
Verbal and written communication Skills. Understanding the mandate of the
Department. People Management Skills, Strategic leadership and Economic
orientation.
DUTIES : Effectively manage the life-cycle of immovable assets under the custodianship
of DPW through physical verification and condition assessment of these
assets. Assist the Director to develop, review and implement Immovable Asset
Register (IAR) policies, frameworks and guidelines in collaboration with other
National and Provincial custodians of immovable assets. Coordinate physical
verification logistics and activities to provide status information around the
existence of all immovable assets in the register. Monitor that all improvements
to state property are appropriately identified and recorded in the IAR. Ensure
that the surveying of DPW land parcels including State Domestic Facilities is
completed. Manage the vesting of land parcels and endorsement of title deeds
under the custodianship of DPW/ PMTE. Provide appropriate support to other
projects within the Asset Registry Unit. Manage, coach and monitor
performance of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 2043
APPLICATIONS : Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho, 2735 or Hand Deliver at 810
Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Streets, Unit 3, Mmabatho, 2735.
Or email to: RecruitMBT25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr T. Oagile
54
POST 17/72 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: 2025/33
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification in Management Services/Operations
Management /Industrial Psychology or equivalent qualification. Relevant years’
experience at an Assistant Director level within the Organisational
development field; Job evaluation certificate. Knowledge: Public Service
Regulation, Public Services Act, PFMA, Other relevant legislations;
Organisational development; Job evaluation System and processes; MPSA
directives; Policy development; Basic financial administration. Skills: Advanced
communication (verbal and written); Problem solving; Analytical thinking;
Decision making skills; Sound organisational skill; Interpersonal skills;
Planning and organising; Technical report writing, Programme and project
management; Relationship management; Negotiation; Motivational skills and
people management skills.
DUTIES : Develop and implement organizational design policies / strategies that support
high performing organisation. Interpret DPWI strategic goals, annual
performance plans and annual reports and translate them into organizational
design interventions. Manage the development and maintenance of
organisational structure and ensure alignment to the strategic plans of the
department. Manage the organizational development investigations including
the creation/abolition/reconfiguration of posts in line with relevant prescripts.
Organisational Development contracting and application of work-study
techniques. Manage the implementation and maintenance of job evaluation
system and processes. Conduct regular audit on the organisational structure
and recommend changes to make the organisation more effective. Develop
and maintains Job descriptions and Job Evaluation databases. Manage and
implement change management and organisational design interventions.
Ensure compliance with relevant prescripts (e.g. PSR, PSA, DPSA Directives,
etc.). Conduct workshops to create awareness on OD interventions. Ensure
effective management and development of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mahlatjie Tel No: (012) 406 1289
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/73 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office and Kimberly Regional Office
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2025/34A
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2025/34B
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human Resource
Management, Human Resource Training and Development, Public
Management, Public Administration, Management Services, Labour Relations
or related. A relevant functional experience in the Human Resources
Management at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). Valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Human Resource Management Policies. Human
Resources Systems and Procedures. Performance Management. Project
Management. Public Service Act, Regulations and Resolutions. Recruitment
and Selection Strategies. Code of Remuneration. All Labour Legislations.
Code of good conduct in the Public Service. Departmental Policies and
Procedures. Batho Pele principles. Human Resource Management Practices
and Systems. SKILLS: Management. Interpersonal. Communication (Verbal
and Written). Computer literacy. Negotiation. Presentation. Report writing.
People Management. Problem solving. Decision making skills. Working
knowledge and experience of PERSAL.
DUTIES : Manage the Human Resource support services and the implementation of all
the Human Resource policies, procedures and relevant prescripts. Manage the
effective implementation of recruitment and selection policy and procedures.
Manage the effective implementation of Performance Management Policy.
Manage the coordination of Human Resource Development interventions and
55
the implementation of Human Resource Development Policies and Programs.
Manage the administration of service benefits and leave of staff in the province.
Manage the implementation of sound labour relations and matters of mutual
interest. Advise line managers and employees on all HRM related matters.
Manage subordinates. Plan and allocate work accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
Mr S Xulu Tel No: (053) 8385 334
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-11@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Ms. C
Rossouw
Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley,
8301 or Hand Deliver to 21-23 Market Square, Old Magistrate Building,
Kimberley. Or email to: RecruitKIM25-05@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Mr S Xulu
POST 17/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COSTING, FUNDING & BUDGET MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 2025/35
Component: PMTE Finance
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Economic and Financial
Management with relevant Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent) experience in Financial Management and Infrastructure Project
budgeting. A candidate must have knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA); Sage X3; Activity-based costing; Treasury
Regulations Government Budgeting Procedures; Financial directives and
procedures; MS Office – Word, Excel & Power Point. Understanding of budget
and financial management principles and advanced financial concepts.
Knowledge of Works Control System (WCS), Supply Chain Management
processes and Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) will be
advantageous. Strong strategic planning, problem solving and analytical skills;
strong communication skills (at all levels), both written and verbal, and good
interpersonal skills; computer literate, willing to adapt work schedule in
accordance with professional requirements. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain all internal and external budgetary planning processes
and policies. Provide advisory services to divisional directors and managers on
all areas of budget management. Effective management of PMTE financial
sustainability in terms of budget management and cash flow. Effective
communication with stakeholders regarding budget and expenditure analyses.
Effectively plan, manage, organise, direct, supervise, and perform professional
budgeting activities relating to overall budget management processes. Manage
the budget and expenditures of the directorate. Manage the administration and
development of staff. Ensure capacity and sustainability of staff of the
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mathabatha Tel No: (012) 406 1968
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION – GOODS AND SERVICES: BID
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 2025/36
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Supply Chain
Management/Purchasing Management/Public Administration/Logistics
Management. Extensive relevant experience in Procurement/Supply Chain
Management at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent).
Experience in Goods and Services/Prestige Procurement will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Framework,
procurement related legislation and regulations, including the Public Finance
56
Management Act, Code of Conduct for Supply Chain Management
Practitioners, Treasury Regulations and Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act, Preferential Procurement Regulations as shall have been
promulgated by the National Treasury. Understanding of government
procurement systems and processes within the prestige environment is
essential. Good knowledge of public sector procurement experience,
knowledge of strategic planning, ability to develop, interpret and apply policies
and legislation. Good verbal and written communication skills, the ability to
manage confidential information, advanced interpersonal and negotiation
skills, problem solving skills, decision making skills and computer literacy are
critical competency areas. The ability to work and deliver under pressure and
within tight time frames is essential. KEY SKILLS: Business writing
communication, Client focus and responsiveness, People and Performance
Management, Diversity Management, Team Leadership; Computer Literate
(especially with regard to MS Word, Excel, Projects and PowerPoint), Basic
Numeric skills and Excellent presentation skills.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the design, implementation and management of the
institutional arrangements for the procurement of Goods and Services /
Prestige as part of the supply chain management system of the Department.
Acquisitions: ensure that the bid/quotation processes are compliant and fully
executed within the requisite legislative and regulatory frameworks and
stipulations. Provide and account for SCM administrative and technical support
to ALL Bid Committees, systems and related structures. Ensure that
procurement source documents are verified, standard bidding documents are
compiled, captured and authorized in accordance with departmental policies
and procedures and compliant with applicable legislative requirements, SCM
Performance Reporting: Consolidate monthly Head Office and Regional
Offices’ inputs to produce SCM performance reports against the Annual
Performance Plan, Collate data; prepare reports and presentations for
management use, Monitor and report on BBBEE/Preferential Procurement
spending in terms of the Department’s targets and report on a weekly/monthly
basis on performance against the Procurement Plan. Risk Management:
participate, support and provide assistance in the conduct of the annual SCM
Risk Assessment and development of the SCM risk universe, compile a risk
response plan and quarterly strategic/operational risk reports. Regularity Audit
Support: Coordinate Internal and External Audit engagement processes, steer
the SCM response process and provide analysis of audit queries, management
responses and Audit conclusions. Ensure timeous reporting to Treasury and
Auditor General (AG). Perform any other assigned duties in relation to the
implementation of the Supply Chain Management system of the PMTE/DPWI.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. X Makhonco Tel No: (012) 406 1760
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/37
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Risk Management, Strategic
Management, or a related field. A relevant experience in a risk management
environment at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). A
valid driver’s license is required. Sound knowledge of enterprise risk
management frameworks (such as ISO 31000 and COSO), governance
frameworks (such as King IV), and applicable public sector legislation including
the PFMA. Skills and competencies: Strong analytical, research and project
management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication, including
advanced report writing. Proven ability to manage risk information systems and
conduct business impact assessments. Computer literacy, ability to work under
pressure, independently and meet deadlines. Attributes: A proactive,
innovative and results-oriented professional with a high level of integrity. The
candidate must possess strong interpersonal skills and the ability to interact at
senior levels within the organization.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the development and
implementation of departmental risk strategies and risk appetite frameworks in
57
alignment with national standards and legislative frameworks. Coordinate the
collection and analysis of risk data and conduct enterprise risk assessments to
identify, evaluate and mitigate key departmental risks. Facilitate the
development of risk registers and implementation plans across branches.
Prepare strategic risk reports and dashboards for management and oversight
bodies. Provide risk advisory services to senior management and programme
managers, including inputs on business continuity plans and emerging risks.
Conduct business impact assessments and support the implementation and
monitoring of business continuity plans. Participate in audits, governance
reviews, and provide inputs for strategic documents and compliance reports.
Engage with external stakeholders and regulatory bodies to align departmental
practices with industry’s best practices. Manage the sub directorate: Ensure
effective communication within the team and with other units. Establish and
maintain proper controls and quality assurance processes for all work outputs.
Compile and submit required reports and serve on departmental or transversal
task teams as required. Ensure that the work of the sub-directorate meets the
highest quality standards and is delivered within set deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : K Sebati Tel No: (012) 406 1351
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-10@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: 2025/38
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public Management, Public
Administration, Business Management or Management. A relevant experience
in a strategic planning environment at a Junior managerial level (Assistant
Director equivalent). A valid driver’s license is required. In-depth knowledge of
strategic management and business planning processes, government planning
frameworks, and applicable legislation and standards (including the Public
Finance Management Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Treasury
guidelines, and relevant norms in the built environment sector). Good
understanding of the functioning of national, provincial and local government,
and of departmental governance processes. Skills: Excellent analytical and
problem-solving skills, strategic thinking, and project management capabilities.
Strong communication skills (including advanced report writing and
presentation skills) and interpersonal skills. Research skills. Proven planning
and organising skills, with proficiency in research and financial analysis.
Personal Attributes: Innovative, creative and resourceful leader who is people
oriented. Able to work independently and effectively under pressure, meet tight
deadlines, and maintain a high level of professionalism and integrity. Computer
literacy (proficiency in MS Office). Added advantage will be proficiency in
economic analysis and the ability to interpret economic trends to inform
strategic planning and policy development.
DUTIES : Coordinate the departmental strategic planning process: Develop the
Department’s Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan (APP) in line with
national policies and the National Development Plan, including conducting
environmental scans (analysis of internal performance, external trends, and
regulatory impacts) and integrating the Minister’s policy priorities into planning
documents. Ensure alignment of the strategic planning process with other key
processes such as risk management, budgeting (MTEF), service delivery
improvement initiatives, and audit action plans, to ensure a coherent and
integrated planning approach. Implement appropriate tools, templates and
systems for effective strategic planning processes and provide training and
support to branches on these tools. Oversee the development of the annual
operational and business plans for departmental budget programmes: conduct
diagnostic analyses of current program status, and evaluate strategic options,
define roles and responsibilities of stakeholders. Support public entities and
councils: Participate in and advise on the strategic planning processes of the
Department’s public entities). Attend entities’ strategic planning sessions to
provide guidance on sector priorities and ensure alignment with the
Department’s goals. Review the Strategic Plans and APPs submitted by public
entities for consistency with the Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual
58
Performance Plans, provide written feedback, and conduct follow-up sessions
to assist them in refining their plans. Manage the Sub-Directorate: Manage
human resources and administrative functions of the unit, including developing
the sub-directorate’s operational plan and monitoring its implementation.
Ensure effective communication within the team and with other units. Establish
and maintain proper controls and quality assurance processes for all work
outputs. Compile and submit required reports and serve on departmental or
transversal task teams as required. Ensure that work of the sub-directorate
meets the highest quality standards and is delivered within set deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : K Sebati Tel No: (012) 406 1351
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-11@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (PMG AND
RECONCILIATION): PMTE FINANCE REF NO: 2025/39
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Financial Accounting,
Management Accounting, Finance or related field plus extensive and
appropriate experience in financial accounting, finance as well as relevant and
appropriate Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent) working
experience. A valid driver’s licence. A candidate must have knowledge of
GRAP accrual accounting, financial accounting, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, ERP systems and Government transversal systems (PMG,
Safety Net, PMIS, WCS, PERSAL and Logis) which are desirable. A candidate
must be knowledgeable in financial policies, procedures, circulars and
directives. The candidate must possess the following. Skills: problem solving,
analytical and innovative thinking, planning, organising, written and verbal and
good interpersonal skills and proficiency with computers. A candidate must be
willing to work irregular hours and go the extra mile.
DUTIES : Setting the Paymaster general (PMG) sub-directorate business plan and
facilitating the achievement of set objectives. Oversee the management and
financial accounting guidance of the PMG sub-directorate, internal controls,
reconciliation of suspense and general ledger accounts and the approval of
related journals. Manage the entity’s bank account – inflow and outflow of
funds, monitor, track and authorise duly signed and supported telegraphic
transfers and ensure transactions are verifiable and in compliance with the
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Review and authorise monthly bank
reconciliations, general ledger and/or suspense accounts and clear suspense
accounts timeously. Ensure that period closure is timeous and complete with
no open transactions for any given period. Develop policies and enhance
ongoing improvements to business processes within the sub-directorate.
Identify policy gaps and key areas for further development to improve efficiency
of financial systems and innovative technology, including narratives and flow
charts. Attend to ad hoc requests by management. Ensure effective document
control of all journals and related documents. Review and sign off all monthly
reporting to the National Treasury. Provide PMG related inputs for the
preparation of financial statements in line with GRAP. Interact with internal and
external auditors (AGSA) to ensure accuracy and resolution of audit findings
and related matters. Build and maintain good working relations with
employees, clients and all stakeholders to produce solutions to issues.
ENQUIRIES : KTE Seletela Tel No: (012) 406 1222
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-12@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE AND DEBT REF NO: 2025/40
Component: PMTE: Finance
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
59
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Financial Accounting or
related. A relevant finance experience at a Junior managerial level (Assistant
Director equivalent). Audit articles will be an advantage. A valid driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel. Knowledge: A candidate must have knowledge of
Financial and ERP systems (BAS, PMIS SAGEX3) public sector experience,
PMFA, GRAP. SAGE Financial Systems experience will be an advantage.
Skills: Strong administrative, analytical and communication skills (both written
and verbal), computer literacy with advanced Excel skills and good
interpersonal skills. Presentation and report writing skills, organizing and
planning, problem solving, diplomacy, ability to work independently and under
pressure to meet tight deadline. Team player with strong negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Effectively manage accounts receivables as well as implement and maintain
debt risk management system. Co-ordinate the financial processes for the
recovery of funds owed to the department. Compile invoices and claims based
on consolidated details; calculate monthly advance charges for Client
Departments. Ensure timeous payment of advances on accommodation
charges; Ensure that clients are billed timeously. Manage the compilation of
Accounts Receivable reports and GRAP accounting of leases; assist regional
offices to reconcile the accounts and ensure completeness and accuracy.
Collate all sub-directorate financial reports, including Regions. Manage
timeous resolution of audit queries. Record and manage claims issued to
National Government Departments, for accuracy and recoverability.
Communicate with client departments regarding non-payment of services and
advances. Monitor and manage the consolidated payments reconciliation from
Financial System (SAGEX3). Report on revenue collected by the department,
follow up on non-payment of invoices and communicate with the Debt
Management team. Ensure effective and efficient management of the Sub-
Directorate and assist in identifying areas that need improvement, ensure
reports are compiled timeously. Provide management support to the line
manager, with compilation of annual financial statements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ngamlana Tel No: (012) 406 1221
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-13@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/80 : EXECUTIVE OFFICE MANAGER: CFO’S OFFICE REF NO: 2025/41
Component: Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Financial
Management/Financial Accounting or related qualification as an added
advantage plus appropriate Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent) experience in the finance and / or office
management/administration within finance. A valid driver's licence. Knowledge
of relevant Public Service Regulations and Project management. Knowledge:
Knowledge of the property or finance industry, Property management
processes and systems, Procurement and tender regulations, Public Finance
Management Act, Generally Recognised Accounting Practice, Modified Cash
Basis, Treasury Regulations, financial delegations and applicable financial
management legislation. Skills: Effective communication skills (verbal and
written), Advanced report writing skills, Numeracy and accounting, Computer
literacy, Ability to work with Senior Managers, Organisational and planning,
Relationship management, Project and Financial management, Interpersonal
and diplomacy skills, Facilitation and Presentation skills, Analytical thinking,
Problem solving skills, Motivational skills. Stakeholder and client liaison and
Report writing. Personal Attributes: Innovative, Creative, Solution orientated –
ability to design ideas without direction, Ability to communicate at all levels,
People orientated, Hard-working and highly motivated. Resourceful, Creative,
Trustworthy, Ability to work independently and Ability to work under pressure
and stressful situations. People orientated.
DUTIES : Prepare and consolidate financial reports on behalf of the CFO; Act as formal
channel of communication between office of the CFO and other Departments
and organisations; Compile briefing notes as well as other financial
documentation to adequately prepare the CFO for such meetings; Contribute
60
to the development and promotion of the programmes under the jurisdiction of
the CFO; Undertake research in the financial environment and inform CFO of
such outcomes in strengthening the position of the Branch within the wider
context of its mandate; Represent CFO at meetings as and when required;
Consolidate all Chief Director’s reports to produce a monthly and quarterly
Branch report; Ensure efficient records management; Manage the flow of
correspondences, documents and reports in the office of the CFO; co-ordinate
and organise office activities; Develop the work plan for the unit and ensure
effective prioritisation and resource planning; Agree on the training and
development needs of the unit; Compile monthly cash-flow and expenditure
projections for office of the CFO; Manage compliance of the unit against
finance, asset management, supply chain and procurement regulations and
policy requirements; Co-ordinate and compile reports on behalf of the CFO for
submission to the Director-General, Ministry, governance structures and
oversight bodies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NP Mudau Tel No: (012) 406 1548
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-14@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/81 : EXECUTIVE OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: 2025/42
Branch: Governance, Risk and Compliance
Component: Office of the Deputy Director-General Governance, Risk and
Compliance
SALARY : R849 702 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Public Management, Public
Administration, Business Management, Office Management, Management as
recognised by SAQA. appropriate Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent) experience in the relevant field. A valid driver's licence. A good
knowledge of policies and procedures, governance/secretarial protocol
preferable in the public sector, document management and archiving,
planning, organising, and coordinating. Good computer skills, report writing,
time management, and minute-taking skills should be the strengths of those
aspiring for this appointment. An advantage would be a good understanding of
financial matters relating to public entities or in the public sector. Skills in
communication, interpersonal relations, and Microsoft Office. Advanced
administrative, organisational, budgeting, financial management, time
management, planning, problem-solving, decision-making, technical
proficiency, and leadership skills.
DUTIES : The executive office manager will Prioritise and schedule appointments,
meetings and conferences and alert to appointments. Organise and co-
ordinate all internal / external meetings and workshops including preparing
agendas, sending out invitations and take accurate/quality minutes for all
meetings that are chaired by the DDG. Manage local and international travel
arrangements and attend to all other relevant logistics. Handle inquiries,
maintain a stakeholder database and contact list, oversee a digital filing system
and physical archive of legal and relevant documents, manage the Deputy
Director-General's schedule, and assist in meeting preparation. The manager
will brief the DDG on communications, manage information flow, coordinate
the DDG's office, track division projects, and handle logistical arrangements for
visitors. Effective filing and archive systems must be maintained. Skills: Basic
analytical and problem-solving skills, strategic thinking, and project
management capabilities. Strong communication skills (including advanced
report writing and presentation skills) and interpersonal skills. Research skills.
Proven planning and organizing skills, with proficiency in research and financial
analysis. Personal Attributes: Innovative, creative and resourceful leader who
is people oriented. Able to work independently and effectively under pressure,
meet tight deadlines, and maintain a high level of professionalism and integrity.
Computer literacy (proficiency in MS Office) and a valid driver’s license are
required. Added advantage will be proficiency in report writing and
management of sensitive and high-profile stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406 1977
61
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-15@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCE REF NO: 2025/43
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial Management or
related. Relevant experience at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director
equivalent). A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of Public Finance Management
Act, National Department of Treasury regulations, guidelines and directives,
Departments Reconciliation processes, understanding of Governments
financial delegations. Management of government’s department’s chart of
accounts, Government Budget systems and procedures, Government
Financial System, Supply chain Management, Financial prescripts (GAAP and
GRAP). Skill Good verbal and written communication skills, Basic numeracy,
Problem solving, Decision making, Numeracy, Statistical, Advanced
interpersonal and diplomacy. Personal Attributes Analytical thinking,
Innovative, Creative, Trustworthy, Hardworking, Resource, and Ability to work
under stressful situations.
DUTIES : Make recommendations for changes and improvements to existing financial
guidelines, standards, policies and procedures. Manage the implementation of
financial guidelines, standards, policies, procedures and strategies and related
treasury prescripts. Ensure the development and implementation of support
tools, provide advice and guidance in various fora in relation to the financial
guidelines. Manage financial accounting and reporting: Manage account
receivable and accounts payable. Oversee the reconciliation of transactions.
Assist in the tracking of invoices to ensure invoices are paid within 30 days of
receipt. Compilation of accurate financial inputs for reporting purposes,
including creation of audit file with supporting schedules and evidence.
Responsible for providing responses to audit findings, discussing technical
audit issues with AGSA as well as providing guidance on audit issues to line
function and finance units within the region. Assist in the development and
monitoring of the audit action plan. Manage the collection and collation of
budget inputs for budget planning and control, Monitor revenue collected, and
expenditure incurred and submit reports and plans as required. Analyse inputs
related to Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Undertake quarterly reviews
on the management of budget allocated to components. Provide general
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and do quality control of the work
delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisor. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PMR Mongwenyana Tel No: (012) 406 1816
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017. Or email to:
RecruitJHB25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 17/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REGIONAL SECURITY MANAGER REF NO: 2025/44
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Security Management
field/discipline/ Social Science/ Behavioral Science or related. Extensive
experience in security management at a Junior managerial level (Assistant
Director equivalent). SSA Security Managers course. Valid A Valid Driver’s
license. Must be prepared to travel. Willingness to successfully attend
prescribed training courses. Prepared to work irregular and long hours. The
candidate must obtain a Top-Secret Security clearance from SSA Security
clearance. Knowledge: Relevant legislation related to public security, including
the Minimum Information Security Standards Act (MISS) and Minimum
62
Physical Security Standards (MPSS). Disciplinary procedures and what
constitutes unprofessional conduct. Regional Business Processes. National
Information Security policy. Risk and threats management. Safety and security
management and administration, including-(security auditing, physical security
measures, contingency planning, occupational health and safety, personnel
security, document security, surveillance, information technology security, fire
regulation and fire protection and communication security). Security
environment (State Security Agency), South African Police Service). Security
breaches and investigations. Skills: Leadership and management skills.
Effective communication at all levels. Report writing. Presentation skills.
Planning and organizing. Programme and project management. Interpersonal
and diplomacy skills. Computer literacy. Detecting skills. Analytical thinking.
Problem solving skills. Decision making skills. Motivational skills. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Conduct physical security audits to the building to determine suitability of
physical security measures. Conduct threats and risk assessment and
implement recommendations. Create security awareness regarding access
control measures and compliance thereof. Manage access control security
system and maintenance thereof. Provide and manage access cards to staff
and visitors. Develop and manage related security registers (laptop, visitors,
etc.). Develop and implement procedures for the movement of movable assets
and information documents. Identify information security risks and threats to
the security of the department and vulnerabilities in the organisational capacity
to counter such. Develop and implement appropriate information security
measures and procedures. Advice Regional Manager regarding the security
implications of executive decisions. Facilitate the management of information
security-related issues by the Security Committee. Maintain records of
information security breaches/incidents. Conduct information security audits.
Monitor the extent of information security compliance. Ensure effective
implementation of information security recommendations. Recommend
interventions/ improvements/ disciplinary measures where appropriate.
Conduct After-hours inspections. Compile and provide management reports.
Develop security specifications for the tender. Leading regarding the
procurement of service providers. Develop and implement service level
agreement for security service providers. Conduct periodic inspections to
guarded sites. Hold regular meetings with security service providers. Process
payment of service providers. Identify staff who deal with sensitive information
for vetting. Conduct vetting and screening awareness to the regional staff.
Liaise and interact with Head of Vetting and Screening and also facilitate
access of service providers to prestige installations. Coordinate screening of
recommended candidates for employment and Service providers. Provide pre-
employment screening results to Regional HR. Liaise with SCM and Project
Management for screening of appointed service providers. Develop and
implement security breaches reporting procedures. Investigate all reported
security breaches incidents and write reports. Report security breaches to the
SSA or SAPS. Develop, implement, evaluate and monitor the performance
agreements with security personnel. Assess performance of security staff.
Supervise and mentor security staff. Maintain discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PT Mashiane Tel No: (013) 753 6303
APPLICATIONS : Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30
Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th Floor, Nelspruit. Or email to:
RecruitNEL25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr E Nguyuza
POST 17/84 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER (PRODUCTION) (GRADE A) REF
NO: 2025/45
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : urban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Higher Diploma (Built Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years
and six months certified experience. B-Tech (Built Environment field) with a
minimum of 4 years certified managerial experience. Honours degree in any
Built Environment field with a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager on appointment. Computer literacy. Knowledge
and understanding of the following Acts: The Public Finance Management Act,
63
Occupational Health and Safety Act as well as Building Regulations and
Environmental Conservation Act. Knowledge and understanding of the
Government Procurement System, good planning, financial and budget skills,
Sound analytical and good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge
and understanding of the NEC, JBCC and GCC form of contract.
DUTIES : Contribute to project initiation, scope definition and scope change control for
envisaged projects. Full project management function, cost, quality and time
control. Manage project cost estimates and control changes in line with
allocated budgets. Plan and attend project meetings during the project phases.
Assist with the compilation of projects documentation to support project
processes. Implement project administration processes according to
Government requirements. Ensure implementation of procurement activities
and adherence thereof to Government policies. Provide assistance in
implementing and assuring that project execution is in accordance with the
approved project norms and time schedules. Support the project environment
and activities to ensure that project objectives are delivered timeously. Manage
and engage in multi-disciplinary construction teams regarding the
construction/maintenance of facilities. Ensure that construction projects are
implemented and executed as envisaged in the acquisition/ procurement plan
and that high quality projects are delivered within time, cost and quality
framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mbhele Tel No: (031) 314 7163
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. Or email to: RecruitDBN25-
02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 17/85 : PROFESSIONAL TOWN PLANNER REF NO: 2025/46
Directorate: Town Planning Services
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant
qualification. Three years post qualification Town and Regional Planning
experience required. Valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with
SACPLAN as a professional Town and Regional Planner on appointment. 5
Knowledge and Skills: Familiar with Built Environment related legislations /
policies and plans. In-depth understanding of all Town and Regional Planning
processes. Well-developed Project Management skills. Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), treasury regulations and other related
government prescripts. Understanding of property development. Stakeholder
management skills, problem solving, decision making, communication,
interpersonal, report writing, presentation skills, negotiation skills and computer
literacy. Personal Attributes: Willing to adapt on work schedule in accordance
with office requirements. Ability to work under pressure, willing to travel
extensively and ability to communicate at all levels. People orientated,
innovative, flexibility and ability to adapt to change. Analytical thinking,
hardworking and highly motivated.
DUTIES : Leading a team of professionals from different fields from the Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure and private sector to marshal and implement
property development. Provide professional Town and Regional Planning
advice in terms of professional qualifications and experience. Facilitate rapid
and punctual delivery of land for the construction of new accommodation for
national departments in line with Site Delivery Programme linked to land
acquisition and disposal. Conduct research with regards to international best
practice process and guidelines. Verify and interpret client department needs,
preferences and space norms. Facilitate community involvement / participation
and stakeholder support. Prepare site identification audit/ report. Analysis,
approval and preparation and site clearance certificates for the proposed
development. Apply quality control and verify appropriate site delivery and
proactively remove constraints that restrain site clearance progress. Review
and formulate Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Memorandum of
Understanding (MoUs) with other state organs/ parastatals and other SOSs.
Provide professional and technical support to implementing teams at Head
Office or regional level. Facilitate financial management process which
64
contains allocation of budget, payment of consultants, expenditure and human
resources. Facilitate and co-ordinate projects for site delivery best practice.
Managing private consultants, SOSs/NGOs and officials regarding
governmental processes and legislative framework. Develop, implement and
maintain the Strategic development plans. Implement relevant Government
policies, legislations, Acts and Regulatory Laws in property development.
Retrospectively evaluate projects and verify compliance with legal and
development conditions. Timely facilitate progress reporting and effective
briefing of client. Understand the needs of the clients, prepare terms of
reference, brief consultants and scrutinise development conditions. Execute
land availability negotiations and entering into service-level agreements with
various relevant institutions service providers such as Ingonyama Trust Board,
Communal and Traditional land owners, parastatal etc. Resolve environmental
impact issues, traffic engineering, heritage impact, land use issues, site
demarcation and site development plans etc. Resolve economic development
and planning related matters that affect the South African Provinces. Prepare
comprehensive reports and conduct public participation processes with all
affected stakeholders. Participate on the formulation and updating of the
District and Municipalities Integrated Development Planning (IDPs) meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ganiso Tel No: (012) 406 1035
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-16@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/86 : PROFESSIONAL TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER: OSD GRADE A REF
NO: 2025/47
Branch: Real Estate Investment Services
Chief Directorate: Planning And Precinct Development
Directorate: Metropolitan Planning
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant
qualification. Three years post qualification Town and Regional Planning
experience required. Valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with
SACPLAN as a professional Town and Regional Planner on appointment.
Programme and Project Management experience. Background of Town
Planning legal framework (legislation, policies, bylaws). Experience in land use
management and land development applications (Rezoning, Subdivision,
Township Establishment, etc.), and integrated precinct planning and
development. Willing to travel extensively. Knowledge And Skills: Conversant
with built environment related legislation and policies. In depth understanding
of property development. Stakeholder management skills. Problem solving;
Decision making; Communication; Interpersonal, Report writing, Presentation;
Computer literacy; Ability to design layout and drafting of maps (GIS) and
Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Manage spatial development for state accommodation solutions within the
spatial development plans (frameworks) / integrated development plans (IDP)
of metropolitan municipalities to ensure integration. Ensure verification and
Interpretation of Client departments’ needs, preference and space norms.
Ensure community involvement and stakeholders support in projects. Manage
site analysis/ audit; site clearance processes for development. Provide timely
progress reports and briefings to client departments. Ensure the appointment,
briefing, administration and payment of professional service providers in
accordance with DPW and other related government guidelines. Prepare
consultant appointment terms of reference and scrutinize development
conditions. Ensure effective relationship with Client departments, User
Demand Managers, Portfolio Managers, Professional Services, Head &
Regional Office Project Managers as well as other relevant government role
players. Apply project quality control and pro-actively remove constraints that
delay the site clearance process. Negotiate land availability and enter into
service level agreements with service providers and various stakeholders.
Provide professional and technical support to the implementation teams at
Head and Regional offices. Develop and inform relevant stakeholders of site
clearance processes. Verify and evaluate project compliance with legal and
65
development conditions. Resolve issues pertaining to environmental and
heritage impact, traffic engineering, land use, site demarcation and site
development plans. Resolve any town planning and other related development
matters that affect client sites or assets. Drafting and mapping of concepts for
Government Precinct plan using GIS, Computer Aided Design software.
Undertaking land use surveys, site inspection for the preparations of precinct
development plans, maps and draft precinct location report. Provide
professional advice on town planning issues. And perform any professional
responsibilities that may be delegated by Principals in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mpondo Tel No: (012) 406 1733
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-17@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/87 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER MR6 REF NO: 2025/48
SALARY : R586 956 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Tertiary Qualification (LLB) with at least 8 years’ appropriate post
qualification experience or 8 years’ experience as an in-house legal advisor or
legal/contract administrator, prepare to travel on an ad hock basis, will to adapt
work schedule in accordance with professional requirements, a valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Mandate and
Functions of the Department, System and Operation of South African Courts
of Law Interpretation of Legislation, Functioning of National, Provincial and
Local Government, Public Service Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act.
Skills: Legislation drafting skills Excellent communication, Research and
Application of the Law, Report writing skills, Organising and planning,
Computer literacy, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal skills, Time management,
Motivational skills, Ability to provide professional in-house legal assistance and
advice.
DUTIES : Provide and supervise litigation services: Search and find all relevant
documents for instituting and conducting an action, application and
proceeding, Consult with clients, witnesses, colleagues, advocates, experts,
Study court records, police dockets, contract, witness statements, case and
other law, Prepare court documents which includes pleadings, affidavits,
opinions, heads of arguments, notices, briefing documents applications and
others. Prepare cases for court by issuing subpoena, Appear in court, lead
evidence. Draft legal documents that provide clear motivation or justification for
a particular position pertaining to the case, and propose the approach to be
followed to ensure success in this regard: Consult with client and other persons
to obtain information required for the drafting of contracts to be entered into,
Research the law applicable to the specific contracts, Drafts documents that
comply with the standards and requirements of the courts and any other
statutory requirements, Use precedents appropriately. Provide and supervise
dispute resolutions services: Successfully conduct an interview in order to
determine the client’s goals and objectives, Advise the client on possible
courses of action during the consultation process, in relation to legal
entitlements and client’s instructions, Obtain all relevant information and
documents from respective parties, Furnish respective parties with decision,
Understand and apply mediation, arbitration and conciliation skills and
practice, Preside over arbitration matters, consider and after hearing legal
arguments, make an award that is legally justifiable. Manage administration
and advocacy support on legal matters: Receive and peruse correspondence
from the various offices of the State Attorney and draft responses thereto, to
ensure that they are in accordance with the instructions of the Department,
Receive and peruse summonses served on the Department, consider the
claims and forward them to the Office of the State Attorney with clear
instructions on whether to settle or defend the claims. Conduct, analyse,
interpret, advise and mentor juniors on research that will provide information
and case law relevant to the legal matter at hand: Consult and read legislation
applicable in a particular matter, Refer to applicable precedent and read on
case law, Consult and read legal text including on-line publications, Identify,
interpret, and apply results of research, Present motivation/proposals on the
how the specific case should be approached to obtain a desirable/ justifiable
outcome / result. Manage the Sub-directorate: Ensure maintenance of
66
discipline, manage performance and development, Establish, implement and
maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Mabaso Tel No: (011) 713 6051
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017. Or email to:
RecruitJHB25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 17/88 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGAL CONTRACTS
ADMINISTRATION (MR6) REF NO: 2025/49
SALARY : R586 956 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A four-year degree (LLB) with at least 8 years appropriate post-qualification
experience or 8 years’ experience as an in-house legal advisor or legal/contract
administrator, willingness to travel on an adhoc basis and adapt to a work
schedule in accordance with professional requirements. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Specialised knowledge of law of contracts and general
administration of contracts within an organizational context, Legal research
and professional legal assistance, in-depth knowledge of the framework for
Supply Chain Management [Regulations in terms of the Public Finance
Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (PFMA)], Code of Conduct for
Supply Chain Management Practitioners, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework, Act, 2000 (Act no. 5 of 2000), the
State Information Technology Agency Act, 1998 (Act No. 88 of 1998), the
Public Service Act, 1994 (Act No 103 of 1994), Public Service Regulations and
Other relevant legislation. Skills: Thorough and proven legal drafting,
communication and presentation skills, Sound analytical and problem
identification and solving. Language proficiency. Maintenance of confidentiality
of information. Computer literacy. Relationship management. Decision-making
skills. Interpersonal and diplomacy. Motivational. Negotiation.
DUTIES : Manage departmental contracts and related legal matters (issue letters of
acceptance to contractors; verify the correctness of contract documentation
legally binding documents for respective parties; manage and safeguard
guarantees; manage and implement court orders as instructed; ensure the
Safe keeping of legal records and documents, such as contracts, guarantees,
etc; and engage with Legal Services and Contract Administration, Head Office,
as and when required). Ensure the extent of managed contracts and related
legal matters. Ensure the extent and effectiveness of the safety and Integrity
of legal records, provide advice, guidance and options regarding the
interpretation and implementation of contracts and related legal matters,
implement and monitor delegated powers as required by National Treasury and
the PFMA, Conduct research and provide professional legal assistance,
advise and support, Draft and verify legal documents, Render assistance to
and liaise with the office of the State Attorney, in conjunction with Head Office
Legal Services regarding litigation and arbitrations in which the Department is
involved, Provide an advisory and supportive role to Project Managers and
Regional Office, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of advice, guidance and
options provided, Ensure the extent of compliance with related standards,
Ensure the extent and effectiveness of legal assistance provided.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Muvhali Tel No: (012) 406 3007
APPLICATIONS : Polokwane Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of public works, Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand deliver at 77
Hans van Rensburg Street, Sanlam Building, Ground Floor, Polokwane. Or
email to: RecruitPLK25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. NJ Khotsa
POST 17/89 : OFFICE MANAGER: MTHATHA REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: 2025/50
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Office Administration,
Management or related with relevant working experience in rendering support
to senior management. A valid Drivers licence. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Exceptional report writing, presentation, general office,
events management and project management skills. Computer literate
67
(MSWord/Excel/PowerPoint/MS Project). Good understanding of PFMA,
PPPFA. GIAMA and Government policies relating to Public Works. Sound
financial management and budgeting skills. Strong analytical skills and
assertiveness. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Ability to deal with and manage outside stakeholders as well as internal staff.
DUTIES : Ensure the smooth functioning of the Regional Manager’s office and uphold a
positive image in the office. Set up systems to co-ordinate the flow of
correspondence between the Regional Manager, Head Office and within the
Regional Office and other Stakeholders. Track and follow up issues on behalf
of the Regional Manager to ensure that issues are dealt with timeously. Ensure
proper preparation of documentation and assist the Regional Manager by
ensuring compilation of quality reports and other communication. Ensure that
the administrative matters in the office of the Regional Manager are dealt with.
Co-ordinate activities of the Regional Manager and provide advisory function.
Assist with compilation of presentations and executive reports. Accompany the
Regional Manager to meetings as and when required. Attend to all delegated
functions and take to conclusion such actions. Consolidate all components
reports to produce a monthly office report. Fully prepare for meetings. Take
and distribute minutes of meetings. Monitor & report progress on all decisions
taken. Assist the regional manager in the evaluation and analysis of regional
management’s quarterly business plans reports to ensure adherence to set
targets and liaise with management in writing, on non-adherence on the
Regional Manager’s behalf. Collate Monitoring & Evaluation as well as the Risk
Register Information for reporting. Ensure the security profile and classification
of documents and information related to the office. Assist in organizing for the
region’s special events. Compile, monitor and manage the budget of the
Regional Manager, including monthly state of expenditure and MTEF reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Hlengwa Tel No: (047) 502 7010
APPLICATIONS : mthatha regional office applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X5007, Sutherland Street, Mthatha 5099 or Hand
Deliver at 29 Sutherland Street, PRD II Building, 5th Floor, Mthatha. Or email
to: RecruitMTH25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Mzalisi
POST 17/90 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET ANALYSIS REF NO: 2025/51
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Financial Accounting or
Management Accounting or related finance qualification. A relevant year of
experience within the finance and accounting field. Knowledge of Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Treasury Regulations, MS – Word, Excel &
PowerPoint and Government budgeting procedures.
DUTIES : Monitor and investigate expenditure for misallocations purpose, Capture and
reconcile original, adjustment budget and shifting of funds on BAS. Request
expenditure reports from BAS and distribute to line function managers. Collect
and register budget inputs from line managers. Ensure accurate expenditure
allocations of SCOA items. Maintain proper filling system. Provide support to
Head and Regional Offices regarding budget allocations and expenditure
items.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mphahlele Tel No: (012) 406 1710
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-18@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/91 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OFFICE OF DIRECTOR-GENERAL
REF NO: 2025/52
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Public Administration/
Management or related qualification. Relevant working experience in the office
of the Director General, Executive and higher offices will be an advantage. A
valid Driver ‘s licence. Knowledge: Government regulatory framework;
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act; Departmental strategic
goals and objectives and service delivery programmes; Built environment
68
industries and related professional bodies; Public Finance Management;
Public Service Regulation; Public Service Act; National Minimum Information
Requirement; Regulations of the National Archives and records Service of
South Africa Act and related records management processes; Archive
standards and procedures. Personal Attributes: People orientated; High level
of reliability; Hard working; Resourceful; Self-motivated; Trustworthy;
Multilingual; Creative. Skills: Effective communication (verbal and written);
Report writing; Computer literacy; Basic numeracy; Statistical analysis;
Interpersonal and diplomacy skills; Analytical; Problem solving skills;
Interpretation skills; Solution oriented. Other: Willing to adapt work schedule in
accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Provide effective management of documents in the office of the DG: Receive,
register and allocate reference number to the received correspondence;
Scrutinise routine submissions/ reports and make notes and/or
recommendations for the manager; Forward correspondence to the Director
and DG for action; Redirect correspondence to branches/units as per DG
instruction/action and maintain copies documents; Make follow up on referred
correspondence/submission; Coordinate feedback from branches, refer to the
DG (as feedback on the assigned task) and dispatch accordingly; Renders
administrative support services:- Record the engagements of senior
managers; Ensure the effective flow of information and documents to and from
the office; Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the office in line with
relevant legislation and policies; Obtain inputs, collates and compiles reports,
e.g progress reports, monthly reports and management reports; Responds to
enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders; Collect, analyse
and collate information requested by the manager; Clarify instructions and
notes on behalf of the manager; Ensure that travel arrangements are well
coordinated; Manage the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit;
Handle the procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for
the activities for the manager and the unit. Provides support to manager
regarding meetings: Scrutinise documents to determine
actions/information/other documents required for meetings; Collect and
compile all necessary documents for the manager to inform them on the
contents; Record minutes/decision and communicates to relevant role-players,
follow-up on progress made; Prepare briefing notes for the manager as
required; Coordinates logistical arrangement for meetings when required.
Ensures effective and efficient management of the ODG’s Registry:-Manage
registry access control; Maintain the database/register of received
correspondence; Operates and ensure that office equipment are in good
working order; Maintain copies of all documents produced, prior to dispatching;
Maintain an effective and well-structured filling system; Ensure classification of
information; Implement the records disposal policy for ODG; Manage the
system of tracing and tracking correspondence. Supports the ODG with the
administration of the budget: Collects and coordinates all the documents that
relate to the office budget; Assist manager in determining funding requirements
for purposes of MTEF submissions; Keep record of expenditure commitments,
monitors expenditure and alerts manager of possible over and under spending;
Check and correlates BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated
correctly; Identify the need to move funds between items, consults with the
manager; Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested budget and
informs the manager of changes. Supervise employees to ensure an effective
service delivery: General supervision of employees; Allocate duties and
perform quality control on the work delivered by supervisees; Advice and lead
supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work; Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees; Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Muthambi Tel No: (012) 406 1409
APPLICATIONS : Head office applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-19@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/92 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
69
PA Office of the CFO Ref No: 2025/53A (X1 Post)
PA office DDG governance, risk and compliance Ref No: 2025/53B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Secretarial Diploma, Public
Management, Public Administration, Business Management, Management,
Office Support or related as recognised by SAQA. In addition, the incumbent
must have: Relevant years of experience at an office administration or clerk or
assistant officer or administrative assistant. A valid driver's license. An
understanding of policies and procedures, governance/secretarial protocol
generally, document management and archiving, planning, organising, and
coordinating. Good computer skills, report writing, time management, and
minute-taking skills should be the strengths of those aspiring for this
appointment. A good understanding of financial matters. Skills in
communication, interpersonal relations, and Microsoft Office. Organisational,
budgeting, financial management, time management, planning, problem-
solving, decision-making, technical proficiency, and leadership skills.
DUTIES : The Personal Assistant will prioritise and schedule appointments, meetings
and conferences and alert to appointments. In addition, the incumbent will:
Acting as a first point of contact: dealing with correspondence and phone calls.
Managing diaries and organising meetings and appointments. Manage access
control to the manager/executive. Booking and arranging travel, transport and
accommodation. Organising events and conferences. Reminding the
manager/executive of important tasks and deadlines. Typing, compiling and
preparing reports, presentations and correspondence. Managing databases
and filing systems. Implementing and maintaining procedures/administrative
systems. Liaising with staff, suppliers and clients. Collating and filing expenses.
Conducting research and write reports on behalf of the manager. Skills: Basic
analytical and problem-solving skills, strategic thinking, and project
management capabilities. Strong communication skills (including advanced
report writing and presentation skills) and interpersonal skills. Research skills.
Proven planning and organising skills, with proficiency in research and financial
analysis. Personal Attributes: The incumbent must be efficient, discrete,
flexible, self-motivated, organised, proactive and a good communicator.
Advanced-level skills in Word for Windows and Microsoft PowerPoint. And at
least an intermediate-level knowledge of Microsoft Excel. Added advantage will
be proficiency in report writing and management of sensitive and high profile
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NP Mudau Tel No: (012) 406 1548
Mr. L Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406 1977
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-20@dpw.gov.za for CFO and Or
email to: Recruitment25-21@dpw.gov.za for Governance, Risk and
Compliance
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/93 : REGISTRY CLERK (OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL) REF NO:
2025/54
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge of records/ documents
management, file plan, mail and courier service procedures. Knowledge of
Information Act (PAIA) and National Archives and Records Services Act.
Knowledge and understanding of Disposal process. Good communication
skills (Written & verbal), Computer literacy in MS Office software with an
Advanced Excel as well as good telephone etiquette are essential. Customer
care and client orientation skills. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide Document management Services: attend to client’s enquiries, handle
telephonic and other related queries. Receive all mails Manual& Electronical),
register and dispatch mail. Facilitate Postage and Mailing of departmental
documents to various destinations and for the courier services. Open and close
files according to record classification system. Filing/ storage, tracing
(electronically/manually) and retrieval of documents and files. Maintain a
system where all completed correspondence files are stored. Ensure proper
record keeping of all the documentation. Administer termination during transfer
from one office to another. Render administrative support, serving internal and
70
external clients. Manage the receipt and distribution of documents. Maintain
the filing system, archives and records. Administer the movement of files.
Prepare, open and place files for daily use. Update register on a daily basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms OB Muthambi Tel No: (012) 406 1409
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-22@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 17/94 : RECEPTIONIST (OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL) REF NO:
2025/55
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance
with office requirements. Knowledge of Departmental Policies and Regulation;
Government Legislatives; Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS)
Act; General office administration functions. Basic communication skills;
Computer literacy; Basic numeracy; Interpersonal relations; Organisational
skills; Basic Financial Management skills. Resourceful; Presentable;
Professional demeanour; Creative; Ability to work under stressful situations;
Ability to communicate at all levels; People orientated; Trustworthy; Assertive;
Hard-working; Self-motivated; Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Render reception services to the Office of the Director General. Receive and
direct telephonic and electronic calls and messages. Liaise with clients,
managers and related stakeholders as directed. Receive and engage visitors.
Keep a logbook of each day’s visitors. Ensure a clean reception area. Exercise
control of access to the Office of the Director General. Support the security
profile of the Office. Arrange and provide refreshments for visitors /clients as
directed. Provide general administrative support services to the office of the
Director General. Receive and administer the flow of information and
documents in the Office. Prepare and distribute documents as directed. Assist
with enquiries related to the Office. Administer the procurement process of
office equipment and stationery. File/ store, trace and electronically and
manually retrieve documents and files. Assist with processing of claims for
travel and accommodation. Assist with administration of leave for staff in the
office of the Director General. Provide general secretarial services to the office
of the Director General. Assist with arrangement of meetings. Organise
logistics for the meeting. Assist with preparation of documentation for the
meetings. Execute all claims for travel, accommodation and rental cars. Assist
with effective flow of information and documents: Direct received submission
to relevant managers within the office of the Director General. Ensure the
safekeeping documentation. Responds to enquiries received from internal and
external stakeholders as directed. Draft documents as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms OB Muthambi Tel No: (012) 406 1409
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works,
Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba
Street, Pretoria. Or email to: Recruitment25-23@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
71
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email. All attachments for
online application must include an application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF
and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application
will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15 MB).
General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Mr Joseph Mahlangu Tel
No: (012) 359 0238 / Ms Lerato Segodi Tel No: (012) 359 0073
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the
Z83 application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a
selection committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the
information provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed
by applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South
African applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must
respond “Yes“ or “No“ to the question whether you are conducting business
with the state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit
Declaration form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the
application. It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a
blank to the question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service,
will you immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but
must submit the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR. Non-
RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job as part of the selection process, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Successful
candidates shall be required to enter into performance agreement within three
(3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1)
month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of
employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be
made on the first notch of the advertised salary level. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to personal security vetting. Note that in terms of the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the
protection of applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain
applicants’ personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection
processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal information against
access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The
Department is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into
72
consideration and preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/95 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADVOCACY AND MAINSTREAMING, RPD REF
NO: DWYPD/011/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. Appropriate
Diploma in Public Administration/Public Management/Project Management or
relevant NQF 6 qualifications. 4 years’ experience in disability rights inclusion
of which 2 should be at supervisory level. Proven experience in the advocacy
and mainstreaming environment and stakeholder management capabilities.
Policy and legislative analysis for purpose of advocacy and mainstreaming.
Knowledge of International treaties and domestic policies impacting on the
lives of persons with disabilities; Demonstrate an understanding of disability
from a socio-economics and human rights perspective; Knowledge of disability
sector Advocacy and awareness programs plan Skills: Develop, and make
presentations to forums; Primary Disability awareness; Transformation and
Change Management; Client orientation and customer focus; effective report
writing, verbal and written communication skills; Problem solving, management
and organising; Advocacy and analytical; Document and financial
management; Events management and organising. Secondary, Impact and
influence; Networking and Relationship Building; Research and knowledge
management; Service delivery innovation; Programme and project
management; Critical thinking and innovation; Computer literacy (MS Office);
Time management Personal Attributes. Ethical behaviour; Honestly and
Integrity; Emotional Intelligence; Passion and Achievement driven; Ability to
work under pressure; Ability to maintain confidentiality of information; Respect
for copyrights/aversion to plagiarism.
DUTIES : Manage Stakeholder databases; Create and maintain disability databases,
Develop databases management system. Coordinate disability rights
awareness and inclusion campaigns; Develop standard operating procedures
for advocacy material, develop disability and accessible friendly information
material, Distribute and disseminate guidelines for development of disability
material, Develop norms and standards for disability inclusive platforms.
Provide support on the management of information platforms; Develop
disability inclusive communication plan for advocacy and projects and
programs, manage communication platforms by ensuring disability inclusion
and accessibility, Advocate for disability inclusive platforms. Provide
administrative and secretarial support services; facilitate logistics for the
disability machinery, provide secretarial services for disability machineries,
Provide administrative support for disability machinery meetings. Analyse
policies and legislation to ensure disability compliance and constitutionality.
Provide administrative and secretarial support services for disability machinery
and Presidential Working Group (PWG on Disability). Organize meetings,
conferences, and events for disability machinery. Prepare and distribute
agendas, minutes, and reports for disability machinery and Presidential
Working Group (PWG). Manage documentation and correspondence. Update
databases or knowledge management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Benny Palime Tel No: (012) 359 0258
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment@dwypd.gov.za
POST 17/96 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND REPORTING REF
NO: CE: DWYPD/012/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/ National Diploma in Strategic Management or equivalent NQF 6
qualification. Minimum of 4 years’ operational experience of which 2 years’
must be at supervisory level. Proven experience in Public Service
administration; Office Administration in executive level; Strategy Management
support. Knowledge: departmental policies and applicable protocols and
departmental governance framework and mandate; Administrative computer
package; MISS and Public service prescripts on office and information. Skills:
73
effective written and verbal communication including editing, basic numeracy,
computer literacy, particularly in MS Office suite and intranet, interpersonal
relations, Excellent Planning and Organisation skills. Personal attributes:
ethical behaviour, ability to work under pressure, emotional intelligence, ability
to maintain confidentiality of information, Honesty and integrity, passion and
achievement driven, respect for copyrights/aversion to plagiarism.
DUTIES : Provide support on the development of the departmental strategy and Annual
Performance plans: Provide support on the arrangements for the convening of
Department strategic planning sessions; Consolidate inputs from programs for
the development of the departmental strategic plan; Provide support on the
development of the draft strategic plan; Co-ordinate sessions with programmes
for the development and review of Annual Performance Plans; and Initiate the
procurement process for the printing of the final Departmental Strategic Plan
and Annual Performance Plans. Provide support on the development of the
departmental operational plan: Consolidation of the branch’s operational plans
onto the departmental plan; Quality assurance of the departmental operational
plan; Analysis on the alignment of the departmental operational with strategic
plan and annual performance plan; Coordinate and facilitate approval of the
departmental operational plan. Provide support on the reporting process of
programmes: Support programmes on quarterly reporting process;
Consolidate quarterly reports from programmes; Provide supports on the
analysis of quarterly reports from programmes; Support the Directorate
Strategic Planning and Reporting on the development of the overall
departmental performance report. Provide administrative support to the Chief
Directorate: Provide document management service to the Directorate;
Compile draft submissions and other correspondences for in the Directorate;
Co-ordinate the submission of departmental performance report to the National
Treasury and other entities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Val Mathobela Tel No: (012) 359 0270
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
POST 17/97 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: DWYPD/013/2025
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied may re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Internal Audit and or relevant NQF level 6 qualification.
Minimum of 2 years’ practical experience in audit field. IIA membership.
Knowledge of Global Internal Audit Standards; Internal Audit Methodology;
National Treasury Internal Audit Framework; Public Finance Management Act
and Treasury Regulations; Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations;
Applicant must possess the following skills and personal attributes: Planning
and organizing; analytical; report writing; written and verbal communication;
problem solving; integrity; ability to work under pressure and produce quality
results, ability to work independently and in a team; computer literacy (MS
Office);. The successful applicant will be subjected to personal security vetting
at a confidential level.
DUTIES : Assist with the planning of audit engagement; Perform internal audit fieldwork
(execution), Reporting and communication of audit results; Follow up on
implementation of audit recommendations and management audit action
plans; Assist with the administrative duties of the Directorate and support
services to the Audit and Risk Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Vusumuzi Shongwe Tel No: (012) 359 0244
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment04@dwypd.gov.za
74
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY
It is the intention of the Department to promote fair representation through the filling these positions. The
candidature from the designated groups especially women and people with disabilities will be given
preference.
APPLICATIONS : The applications must be submitted to the via one of the following options: (i)
Recruitment Centre, Community Safety P/BagX0057, Bisho, 5605, OR (ii)
Hand Deliver to: The Department of Community Safety, Corner Independence
Avenue and Circular Drive, Bhisho, ERF 5000 Building, 5605, OR (iii) use the
provincial e-Recruitment system available at:
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/ (to view the vacancies without logging-in
click on: Jobs). The e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23:59
on the Closing Date. Report any e-recruitment challenges; activation of profile,
password resets, etc by sending an email with your ID Number, profile email
address, details of the challenge to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za.
Applications submitted via this email address will be regarded as lost and will
not be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30
Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday. Applicants are encouraged to
submit using the e-recruitment system
FOR ATTENTION : Ms B. Mndindwa or Ms L. Mazwi
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025. No late/ Faxed/ Posted, Hand-delivered, and e-Mailed
applications will be accepted except where specified.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply. For SMS (Senior
Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve 12/24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
75
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/98 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR CLUSTER & PARLIAMENTARY COORDINATION:
HOD REF NO: DOCS01/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate bachelor’s degree or National
Diploma (NQF level 6/7) as recognized by SAQA in Public Administration/or
other relevant social sciences studies. A minimum of 3 years’ proven relevant
experience as Assistant Director and A valid Driver’s license. Competence:
Knowledge of the legislative frameworks such as the Public Service Act and
public service regulations. Computer Literacy in MS Office. Planning and
organizing. Problem solving and decision making. Project management. Team
leadership. Work under pressure to meet deadlines. Apply ethics and integrity
in work. Reliability. Innovative and creative. Flexibility. Teamwork. Planning
and execution.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for coordination of cluster: JCPS. Convening
of the Social Cohesion, Moral Regeneration and Nation Building Working
group. Consolidate working group report to the JCPS Cluster and follow up on
implementation of working group resolutions. Drafting of cabinet memos and
follow up on cabinet resolutions. Attend and assist in coordination of the PSS
workstream. Facilitate development of the JCPS annual Programme of Action
and drafting of indicators. Compile presentations and report for JCPS cluster
and follow up on resolutions from multi-sectoral stockholders. Coordinate
submission of EXCO resolutions and all resolutions from other Clusters relating
to the Department. Coordinate timeous submission and quality assurance of
Parliamentary questions. Coordinate tabling of strategic documents and
departmental reports to the Legislature. Attend relevant Safety and Security
workstream meetings. Attend to any activity which may emanate from the
cluster.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 17/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OVERSIGHT REF NO: DOCS 02/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate bachelor’s degree/Diploma (NQF
Level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration/Public
Management/Social Sciences, Developmental Studies or relevant
qualification. A minimum of 3 years of relevant experience at supervisory level
7/8 and a valid south African driver’s license.
DUTIES : Office Administration, Implement and supervise Safety Brigades, Safety
Patrollers and CLO’s, Manage and analyse impact assessment of monitoring
tools, guidelines and systems. Implement and monitor complaints
management. Analyses DVA and GBV related legislation and policies in
relation to policing mandates. Ensure compliance with Ministerial Directives.
Monitor and evaluate SAPS compliance with the Domestic Violence Act (DVA)
and other Gender Based Violence (GBV) related legislation and policies. Plan
and conceptualise compliance monitoring projects. Guide oversight visit
processes. Assess and analyse SAPS compliance levels in relation to
legislation, policies and Ministerial Directives. Oversee intervention plans for
non-compliance. Coordination and monitoring of special projects. Participate
in Intersectoral Committees relating to implementation of DVA and GBV related
legislation. Provide complex reports on police compliance. Develop DVA
compliance reports. Build relations with governmental stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
76
POST 17/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH & WELLNES REF NO:
DOCS: 03/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate bachelor’s Degree/Diploma (NQF
Level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA in Psychology or Social Work or any
relevant qualification. A minimum of 3 years of relevant experience at
supervisory level 7/8 and a valid south African driver’s license. Registration
with the HPCSA as a counsellor will be an advantage. Competencies:
Legislation and prescripts; Policies pertaining to the field Practical
demonstration of knowledge in the Employee Wellness and HIV and AIDS
fields; Computer literacy; Finance; Knowledge of professional ethics and
behavior by persons involved in wellness environment; Planning; Managerial;
Counseling; Decision making; Problem solving; Conflict management Diversity
management.
DUTIES : Facilitate and sustain employee wellness with the following responsibilities:-
Facilitate case work; Develop, implement and monitor wellness related policies
and guidelines; Facilitate the management of HIV and AIDS in the workplace;
Management of resources, Develop, implement and evaluate programmes
within the four Pillars of the Employee Health and Wellness Strategic
Framework (HIV and AIDS, STI and TB Management, Health and Productivity
Management, Wellness Management and SHERQ Management.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za.
POST 17/101 : COMMUNITY LIASON OFFICER REF NO: DOCS: 04/05/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate bachelor’s degree/Diploma (NQF
Level 6/7) in Social Science, Police Science and Public Management or
Administration. A minimum of 1-2 years of relevant experience. Competence:
Knowledge of the Constitution of RSA, 1996 , Civilian Secretariate for Police
Service Act, 2011 , Independent Investigative Directorate Act 1, of 2011 ,
National Crime Prevention Strategy , 1996 , Domestic Violence Act, 1998 ,
Child Care Act , 1983 , Criminal procedure Act of 1977 , Promotion of Public
Administrative Justice Act of 2000 , Promotion of Access to Information Act ,
2000, Report writing skulls and Financial management and valid driver’s
license is essential.
DUTIES : Conduct effective oversight to the South African Service Police. Conduct
Policing accountability engagements. Conduct delivery service at Police
Stations. Strengthening Community policy relations in the district. Conduct
assessment of functionality of the CPF’s structures within the district. Oversee
CPF elections. Establish and monitor the functioning of the and village
committees. Conduct capacity-building programmes for CPF’s in the district.
Conduct social crime prevention awareness. Support Municipality with the
establishment of the, Participate in IDP and IGR sessions. Facilitate the
establishment, payments and monitoring of Safety Patrollers. Compile and
submit performance reports. Submit verify monthly progress reports on
activities conducted as per the district Operational Plan.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 17/102 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERVICES REF NO:
DOCS: 05/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate bachelor’s degree/Diploma (NQF
Level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA in Financial Accounting/ Financial
Management/Cost and Management Accounting. A minimum of 1-2 years of
relevant experience in accounting services a valid south African driver’s
licence. Competencies: Thorough understanding of the ledger accounts and
Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA), good understanding of the BAS system
as well as the interface between the bank and the BAS. Computer skills,
effective communication skills, both written and verbal, and problem-solving
77
skills. A clear understanding of public sector legislative framework (PMFA and
related Treasury Regulations), ability to work under pressure and to meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Clear suspense accounts. Follow-up on unallocated transactions in suspense
accounts. Compile all relevant information for the preparation of financial
statements. Ensure processing of inter-departmental claims as per PFMA.
Capture departmental debt take-on. Follow-up on outstanding debts and inter-
departmental claims. Monthly, quarterly, and annual reporting on departmental
debts and suspense accounts. Prepare credible quarterly interim financial
statements and annual financial statements with supporting working paper
files. Proper filing of supporting documents. Ensure clearing of banking and
revenue related exceptions on BAS. Prepare revenue pay-overs for the
department’s collection. Preparation of the monthly revenue reconciliation and
Revenue IYM. Prepare monthly reports for compliance certificate. Ensure
timeous and accurate month end and year closure of accounting records.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za.
POST 17/103 : CHIEF PROVISSIONING ADMIN OFFICER: SCM REF NO: DOCS:
06/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (NQF Level 4), Diploma or Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Supply Chain Management, Financial Management/ Management/
Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting/Financial Information System/
Internal Auditing/ Business Management/ Public Administration or Public
Management/ with 1-2 years’ relevant experience chain management
environment and LOGIS certificate). Competence: Knowledge of the PFMA,
PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management Framework Act,
BBBEE Act. Practical work experience on LOGIS & BAS systems and
interpretation of the system generated reports. A valid Code 08 driving license
is essential.
DUTIES : Implementing procurement strategies, coordinating implementation of
Procurement Plan. The incumbent will be responsible for ensuring that the
quotation process is complied with i.e. generate purchase orders. Perform
quality checks on every order before generating an order to avoid wasteful,
unauthorized, and fruitless expenditure. Managing commitments. Respond to
customer and supplier inquiries about order status, changes, or cancellations.
Perform functions related to Procurement Committee/ Quotation Evaluation
Committee. Assist in performing other functions assigned to the supply Chain
Management unit. Advice and provide report to the Assistant Director- Supply
Chain Management.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 17/104 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PAYMENT REF NO: DOCS: 07/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA with no
experience and appropriate Diploma or Degree (NQF Level 6/7) Financial
Management/ Management/ Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/Financial Information System/ Internal Auditing and valid south
African driver’s license will be added Advantage. Competence: supply chain
Management processes, inventory Management, Public Service Management
Act, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA and other relevant prescripts.
DUTIES : Receive order batch for processing payment. Check and verify invoices for
correctness. Prepare and maintain Payment Monitoring Tool. Prepare
creditors’ reconciliation. Compile payment vouchers. Capture Sundry/Logis
payments. Distribution of payment stubs to the beneficiaries. Verification of
payment vouchers against payment stubs. Affix PAID stamp on all paid
payment vouchers. Filing and safekeeping of payment vouchers in the strong
room. Retrieve batches requested during audit (both Internal and External
Auditing). Attended to service provider’s queries.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
78
POST 17/105 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SALARIES REF NO: DOCS: 08/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate NQF level 6 in Finance/ Accounting
or equivalent relevant qualification will be an added advantage. With 0-1 year
of relevant experience. PERSAL and Logis Certificate BASS Computer skills
(MS Word and Excel). Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service
financial legislations, procedures, and Treasury regulations (PFMA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual).
DUTIES : Process employees' claim, allowances and deductions. To provide information
about the financial position, performance and changes in the financial position
of the department. To provide administration and support to staff members in
order to improve the unit’s performance. To provide distribution services. status
Receive order batch for processing payment. Check and verify invoices for
correctness. Prepare and maintain Payment Monitoring Tool. Prep. Compile
payment vouchers. Capture Sundry/Logis payments. Distribution of payment
stubs to the beneficiaries. Verification of payment vouchers against payment
stubs. Filing and safekeeping of payment vouchers in the strong room. Retrieve
batches requested during audit (both Internal and External Auditing). Attended
to service provider’s queries.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za.
POST 17/106 : ADMIN CLERK: STORES REF NO: DOCS: 09/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA with no
experience and appropriate Diploma or Degree (NQF Level 6/7) In Logistics /
Inventory / Public Management and a valid south African driver’s license will
be added advantage.
DUTIES : Ordering, Receiving and issuing of stationery, consumables and cleaning
material. Maintain stock levels. perform quarterly stock taking. Maintaining
supplier lead times and updating bin cards. Receiving invoices on LOGIS.
Attending official queries, handling complaints, and ensuring employees have
a positive experience. Compiling monthly reports for inventory management.
keep records of items ordered, issued and received.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 17/107 : ADMIN CLERKS REF NO: DOCS:10/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate with no experience, however, National Diploma
or Degree (NQF Level 6/7 in Public Administration or relevant qualification and
exposure to the environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Analysis
of Raw Data. Computer hardware & software. Managing files & records.
Designing Forms and back-up system.
DUTIES : Provide data capturing services Receive and record data. Capture data from
available records into the required formats e.g. databases, table, spread sheet.
Provide data verification services Verify queries missing data and errors
observed during data entry. Review and validate all data from the records
Submit data Provide data management services. Make regular backups of
data. Update registers and statistics Provide record keeping services Keep and
maintain records and files Ensure records and files are properly sorted and
secured. Provide information to components.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 17/108 : GENERAL ASSISTANTS REF NO: DOCS: 11/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR-Tambo & Alfred Nzo
79
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10 qualification, standard 8 or Level 2-4–ABET level 4 or NQF level 1
to 3. With no years of experience. Competence. Communication (verbal &
written), customer service orientation, integrity and honesty and ability to work
under pressure: Report writing, interpersonal relations, loyalty, fairness,
integrity, responsive and courteous. Knowledge of relevant legislation,
prescripts, policies, and procedures.
DUTIES : Provision of Cleaning Services. Dusting and waxing office furniture. Sweeping,
scrubbing, and waxing the floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors, cleaning
walls, windows, and doors. Emptying waste bins or similar containers,
transporting waste material to designated collection points and mopping floors
with wet or damp mops. Cleaning the restrooms. Refilling hand wash liquid
soap, replacing toilet papers, hand towels and refreshments. Empty and wash
waste bins. Report and maintain machines and equipment, cleaning of
machines (vacuum cleaners, etc.) and equipment after use. Request cleaning
material.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at 079 284 6709
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : The applications must be submitted only via provincial e-Recruitment system
available at: https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/ (to view the vacancies without
logging-in click on: Jobs). The e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and
closes at 23:59 on the Closing Date. Report any e-recruitment challenges;
activation of profile, password resets, etc by sending an email with your ID
Number, profile email address, details of the challenge to:
erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za. Applications submitted via this email address will
be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Technical support is limited to
working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday.
Applicants are encouraged to submit using the e-recruitment system
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025. No late/ Faxed/ Posted, Hand-delivered, and e-Mailed
applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply. For SMS (Senior
Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
80
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve 12/24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/109 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DOE01/05/2025
SALARY : R1 741 770 – R1 962 090 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package), (total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the Senior
Management Services). The successful candidate will be required to enter into
a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS astern Cape Department of Education requires the services of a technically
experienced person to support it to fulfil its constitutional mandate and for this
purpose she/he should have: An appropriate recognized bachelor’s degree
(NQF level 8) in Human Resource Management/ Public Management/Public
Administration / related qualification in the field of Social Sciences. A
postgraduate qualification in the above-mentioned fields will serve as an
advantage. 8 years’ experience at the senior management level in Human
Resource Management, Corporate Services or related. field. Extensive
knowledge and understanding of the dynamics of the Public Service,
Government systems and operations Pre-entry SMS certificate as directed by
DPSA. Certificate must be submitted prior to appointment. Good understanding
of the PFMA. Good understanding of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Ability to work in cross-functional projects/teams. Excellent
coordination and project management skills. Good understanding of
Government policies and initiatives and the role of information in Government
decision-making process. Demonstrated strategic, operational and project
management ability and experience. Experience in leading and managing
transformation, change and diversity. Generic management competencies,
including strategic capability and leadership, programme and project
management, people management and empowerment and financial
management. Exceptional written, communication skills and report writing
skills. Well-developed research skills. Negotiation and interpersonal skills.
Solid experience in the Microsoft Office Suite. A Valid driver’s license (with
exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : As Head of the Branch: Corporate Services, the appointee will: Implement
transformation and service delivery enhancement programmes in order to
create a high performing organisation and a safe and conducive work
environment. Ensure the communication of EC programmes and the effective
management of stakeholder and partner relations to increase awareness of the
image and profile of the EC and its programmes. Ensure the development and
implementation of human resource and employee relations strategies, policies
and plans. Ensure the development and implementation of Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) strategies and solutions aligned to the
Department’s overall strategy. Ensure the effective implementation and
support of Enterprise Risk Management within the Department. Ensure a
professional, credible, accessible and quality assured legal service to the
Department. Ensure the establishment of a Unit that will be responsible for the
development and management of a knowledge management system for the
Department. Promote continuous service delivery improvement through the
use of total quality management principles. Oversee the management of
budgets and resources of the Branch. Manage and provide strategic leadership
for all components reporting to this Branch. Represent the EC in relevant fora.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SA Maasdorp Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
81
POST 17/110 : DIRECTOR: INCLUSIVE EDUCATION REF NO: DOE03/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 – R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), (inclusive package). An all-
inclusive salary package structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package;
State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic
salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of
duty.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Post graduate Degree in a relevant field of specialised intervention support in
the areas of therapeutic and psychological services. Professional registration
with SACE or Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Minimum 5
years of experience at middle/senior managerial level in the field of
specialization and knowledge of Inclusive Education System and related
policies. Knowledge and experience of the PFMA, Conditional Grants and
Financial Management and development of Business Plans will be an added
advantage. Valid Driver’s License, MS Word, PowerPoint skills is essential.
Project management and ability to manage programmes and people on a
larger scale. Proven experience of Intersectoral collaboration / governmental
partnership. Proven leadership experience and ability to work to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : To develop, maintain and facilitate the implementation of Inclusive directives
related to funding and finances, budget management, and financial reporting
of all Special Schools, Full-Service schools and Schools of Skills. To develop,
maintain and implement Inclusive Education Policy directives across all
spheres in the Departments. To respond to all-inclusive education matters with
relevant stakeholders, public concern raised as well as inter and intra-
directorate concerns. To improve the quality of life of learners and educators
in the education system. Promotion of an Inclusive Education Systems dealing
with the diverse barriers that learners experience. Coordinate, develop and
facilitate appropriate intervention strategies to address all forms of barriers to
ensure access to quality teaching and learning. To provide learners with
opportunities and skills to enter the job market and becoming productive citizen
of societies irrespective of their barriers to learning. To facilitate social cohesion
and stakeholder involvement to ensure learner accessibility, retention and
improve learner performance. To monitor, evaluate and report on the
performance of Inclusive Education directives and programmes. To achieve
departmental operational objectives as it relates to addressing barriers to
learning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/111 : DIRECTOR: SCHOOL HEALTH, SAFETY AND LEARNER ENRICHMENT
REF NO: DOE04/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 – R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), (inclusive package). An all-
inclusive salary package structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package;
State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic
salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of
duty.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree in education or equivalent qualification (NQF
Level 7) coupled with a minimum of five (5) years of experience at
middle/senior managerial level in the relevant field. Pre-entry SMS certificate
as directed by DPSA. Certificate must be submitted prior to appointment.
Computer Literacy. A valid driver license. Competencies: Knowledge of the
current technology development, Public Finance Management Act, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act and Basic
Conditions of Employment Act and other relevant prescripts and legislations.
Good communication, planning project management, decision making and
problem-solving skills. Policy analysis and development.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in Health Safety and Learner Enrichment in the
Department. Coordinate the promotion pf social support and the provision of
82
learner enrichment programmes. Develop systems for the mainstreaming of
care and support for teaching and learning within schools. Manage the
increase of awareness and knowledge on health promoting behaviours within
the Department. Coordinate school health programmes within the department.
Develop, conduct, and monitor planning of school health programme and the
implementation of school health services. Develop relevant intervention
strategies to promote sexual health and life skills within schools. Conduct
planning and implementation of sexual health and life skills services within the
department. As a Responsibility Manager for the Directorate assume ultimate
responsibility for the effective and efficient performance of personnel and
utilization of resources allocated to the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/112 : DIRECTOR: TRAINING INSTITUTE (TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL) REF
NO: DOE08/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 – R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), (inclusive package). An all-
inclusive salary package structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package;
State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic
salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of
duty.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Bay (Gqebera)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year relevant Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF Level
7) as recognized by SAQA; A Minimum 5 years of experience at middle/senior
managerial level in the relevant field; Extensive experience in quality and
diversification of curriculum delivery and the design of continuing professional
teacher development programs; Certificate in Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme (SMS pre-entry programme). Good
communication (verbal and written) skills, presentation skills, analytical skills,
strategic planning and reporting skills, computer literacy, leadership skills,
project management, stakeholder management skills, risk management and
financial management skills; Should be a strategic thinker who has the ability
to lead within a diverse environment; Should be able to work under pressure.;
Candidate should have ability to maintain sound interpersonal relations;
Preference will be given to candidates who have a working knowledge of the
Education Policies, PFMA and Treasury Regulations applicable to the public
service, NEPA, Educators Employment Act, SASA, Teacher Development
Framework and Policies; A good understanding of Curriculum and teacher
development within the sector; A sound and through understanding of the
Education Sector. Core Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership,
People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management, Change
management.
DUTIES : Managing and developing innovative and effective teacher development
systems and programme; Driving the Continuing Professional teacher
development (CPTD) management system; Developing continuing
professional teacher development courses that are pedagogically sound, data
driven and content rich; Developing and maintaining an ICT platform to make
quality professional development opportunities accessible to all teachers;
Monitoring and evaluation of the impact and efficacy of the teacher
development initiatives; Communicating improved teacher development
strategies and practices. Providing strategic leadership to staff and developing
annual plans; Managing the finances of the Directorate in line with the Public
Finance Management Act; All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical element
of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department.
Following the interview and the technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. The incumbent will have to sign an annual
performance agreement as well as annually disclose his/her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance. Identify and manage risks in area of
responsibility. Ensure timely budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis and
83
reporting. Ensure that Procurement Planning takes place, that specifications
are developed timeously and that there is compliance with supply chain
prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s assets are managed, maintained and kept safely.
Weigh up financial implications of propositions and align expenditure to cash
flow projections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MA Jack Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/113 : DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
(CLUSTER B) REF NO: DOE09/09/2025
Candidates who applied previously for this position are advised to re-apply
SALARY : R1 216 824 – R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), (inclusive package). An all-
inclusive salary package structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package;
State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic
salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of
duty.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration/Education/Management as recognized by SAQA Minimum 5
years of experience at middle/senior managerial level in relevant field.
Candidate recommended must be in possession of Certificate of Entry into
SMS within the Public Service obtained from the National School of
Government before they are appointed. Clear understanding of the legislative
framework that governs the Public Service. Understanding and application on
South African Schools Act, Public Finance Management Act, Division of
Revenue Act as Amended, Treasury Regulations and Department of Public
Service and Administration Directives. Valid Code 8 Driver’s license is a
requirement. Ability to work under pressure and long hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of education and corporate services related
policies, frameworks and instruments and information management in the
cluster. Manage the provisioning of sound financial management and supply
chain management. Coordinate human resources management services in the
cluster. Manage the information flow regarding the implementation of a
standard /uniform mode of operation for schools at cluster level. Ensure
coordination of consistent implementation of corporate service in the Cluster.
Ensure the coordination of knowledge and records management services for
the cluster. Manage the allocated resources of the Directorate in line with
legislative and departmental policy directives and comply with corporate
governance and planning imperatives. The incumbent will have to sign an
annual performance agreement as well as annually disclose his/her financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance. Identify and manage risks
in area of responsibility. Ensure timely budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis
and reporting. Ensure that Procurement Planning takes place, that
specifications are developed timeously and that there is compliance with
supply chain prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s assets are managed, maintained and
kept safely. Weigh up financial implications of propositions and align
expenditure to cash flow projections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TJZ Mtyida Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/114 : DIRECTOR: FACILITY, SECURITY AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DOE11/05/2025
Candidates who applied previously for this position are advised to re-apply
SALARY : R1 216 824 – R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), (inclusive package). An all-
inclusive salary package structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package;
State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic
salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of
duty.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree qualification in the Build Environment/
Property Management or related field / Bachelor of Arts / Public Management/
84
Public Administration/ Facilities Management at NQF level 7 as recognized by
SAQA. A Minimum 5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial level in
the relevant field. Candidate recommended must be in possession of
Certificate of Entry into SMS within the Public Service obtained from the
National School of Government before they are appointed. Clear
understanding of the legislative framework that governs the Public Service.
Understanding and application on South African Schools Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act as Amended, Treasury Regulations
and Department of Public Service and Administration Directives. Valid Code 8
Driver’s license a requirement. Ability to work under pressure and long hours.
DUTIES : Render facility management and general support services. Provide security
management and vetting services. Provide strategic direction and oversight on
departmental knowledge and records management. Provide auxiliary services.
The incumbent will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as
annually disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security
clearance. Identify and manage risks in area of responsibility. Ensure timely
budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis and reporting. Ensure that
Procurement Planning takes place, that specifications are developed timeously
and that there is compliance with supply chain prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s
assets and resource are managed, maintained and kept safely. Weigh up
financial implications of propositions and align expenditure to cash flow
projections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Masoeu Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/115 : CHIEF ENGINEER: STRUCTURAL: PHYSICAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (GRADE A) REF NO: DOE10/05/2025
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R1 446 921 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification. Six years of
post-qualification experience required as a registered professional Engineer.
Valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineer. Extensive experience in the field of structural engineering which
includes but not limited to design and construction of concrete structures (such
as industrial, residential and office buildings; water and wastewater treatment
works, bridges, dams etc.); Steel structures (such as industrial and office
buildings) and masonry structures. Experience in the interpretation of
geological information and data obtained from geotechnical investigations and
the application thereof in the design of building foundations. Exposure to the
four main contracts used in the civil engineering industry. Good understanding
of the CIDB standard for uniformity. Good communication skills. Excellent
technical report writing and presentation skills are required. Innovative
problem-solving and ability to work independently at strategic, production and
execution levels. Applied knowledge of all relevant Built Environment
legislative/regulatory requirements of National and International standards. A
valid driver’s license (minimum code B) and the ability/willingness to travel are
essential. Experience in managing and leading junior engineers, technicians,
technologists and candidates.
DUTIES : Technical specification and evaluation of professional service providers’ and
contractors’ bids. Review and acceptance of the professional service provider’s
concept and detailed designs. Assist in compilation of tender documentation.
Conduct technical inspections and integrity surveys on various civil engineering
assets. Compilation of technical justifications to initiate new projects.
Compilation of business cases to justify funds for new projects. Conduct quality
control over the work of the consultant and the contractor during the execution
phase of the project. Assist project managers in resolving technical disputes
arising at different stages of the project. Review and audit final professional
civil engineering accounts. Accept responsibility for the development,
implementation, review and regular updating of standardised civil engineering
practice manuals for the Department. Undertake detailed design,
documentation and implementation of minor projects. Engage with client
departments and stakeholders on technical matters. Provide mentorship and
supervision to candidate engineers, technologists and technicians.
85
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/116 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR: PHYSICAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(GRADE A) REF NO: DOE12/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 099 488 – R1 250 907 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : At least a B-degree in Quantity Surveying (Postgraduate qualification will be
an added advantage). A minimum of 6 years’ relevant post qualification
experience in the field of quantity surveying. Compulsory registration as a
Professional Quantity Surveyor with the South African Council for Quantity
Surveying Profession (SACQSP). A valid driver’s license. Extensive
experience in quantity surveying both in building and engineering projects.
Good understanding of the CIDB standard for uniformity and the standard
professional services contract.) Good communication skills. Excellent technical
report writing and presentation skills are required. Innovative problem-solving
ability and ability to work independently at strategic, production and execution
levels. Applied knowledge of all relevant Built Environment
legislative/regulatory requirements of National and International standards.
Ability and willingness to travel are essential. Experience in managing junior
staff is essential.
DUTIES : Technical and cost evaluation of professional service providers’ and
contractors’ bids. Review and acceptance of the professional service provider’s
cost estimates for both conceptual and detail design stages. Evaluate and
verify claims of professional service providers and contractors during the
execution phase of projects. Attend on-site technical meetings on behalf of the
department. Assist project managers in resolving technical disputes arising at
different stages of the project. Verify and approve Contract Price Adjustment
Provisions (CPAP) for projects in construction in accordance with both the
JBCC and GCC contracts. Render Quantity Surveying Services on in-house
designs on projects designed by internal Architects and Engineers. Verify and
confirm the final account on both consultant’s and contractor’s fee accounts.
Update relevant quantity Surveying manuals, norms and standards. Ensure the
adoption of technical and quality strategies. Provide solutions on non-
compliance on quantity determination. Supervise junior quantity surveyors.
Mentor candidate quantity surveyors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/117 : CONTROL GISC TECHNOLOGIST: PHYSICAL REOURCE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DOE13/05/2025
SALARY : R921 900 – R1 051 461 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and 3 to 4 years
GISc or related Bachelor’s Degree. Minimum of 6 years post qualification GISc
Technologist experience. Compulsory registration with South African
Geomatics Council (SAGC)/PLATO as a GISc Technologist. Job related
Knowledge: Knowledge of programme and project management. GISc, legal
and operational compliance. GISc implementation. Standards development.
Policy formulation. GISc operational communication. Process knowledge and
skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Spatial modelling and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. GISc applications. Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting. Job related skills: Strategic
management and direction. Mobile equipment operating skills. System skills.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management skills. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Language proficiency. Computer literacy. Change
management skills. Negotiation skills. Knowledge management skills. A valid
driver’s license. Willing to travel throughout South Africa. Willing to adapt to a
work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Design, plan and perform advanced GISc analysis to address organizations
strategic objectives. Undertake spatial modelling. Facilitate the collection and
capturing of spatial data from various formats and sources. Ensure the
publishing of metadata. Coordinate the design, development and creation of
86
geospatial databases. Conduct analysis and visualization of data to meet the
stated requirements. Manage and implement image processes and
procedures. Undertake operational and project requirement. Maintain GIS unit
effectiveness. Develop and manage spatial information applications within
organizational process. Provide access to spatial information and Geographic
Information Services to all clients in the Department. Develop training manual
end users on skills regarding GISc all times. Ensure interoperability between
systems to maximize efficiency. Publish data into a web based GISc system to
provide geographical information through the internet. Always ensure easy
access to spatial information. Document GISc processes. Provide stakeholder
management services. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives
e.g. short-term assignments and secondments within and across operations in
support of individual development plans, operational requirements and return
on investment. Monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. Provide GIS implementation support.
Support GIS and technical systems audit. Support the systems requirements
analysis. Participate in cost benefit analysis exercises. Facilitate the
development of process models and workflow diagrams. Ensure
implementation of GIS standards. Draft Terms of Reference for GIS projects.
Manage maps production and customise them to meet client needs
accordingly. Conduct research. Research, investigate and advise on new GIS
technologies. Advise on research viability and feasibility. Recommend and
compile appropriate plan to respond to the research problem. Develop new
methods / technologies for solving spatial data problems. Research and
implement new GIS standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/118 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SCHOOL NUTRITION REF NO: DOE14/05/2025
Candidates who applied previously for this position are advised to re-apply
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), inclusive package. An all-
inclusive salary package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of
package; State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13%
of basic salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised undergraduate NQF level 6/7 or equivalent
qualification in Financial Management / Project Management / Public
Management or Administration, Food and Nutrition / Food Security / Food
Production plus 3 - 5 years as an Assistant Director in Financial management
/ Administration. A valid driver’s license. Proven knowledge and experience of
the PFMA, Conditional Grants, Financial Management and Development of
Business Plans. Project Management and ability to manage programme on a
large scale. Proven experience of Intersectoral Collaboration/Government
Partnership. Experience in compiling of reports and adhering to timeframes.
Proven knowledge of Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act,
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of the National School Nutrition
Programme. Valid Driver’s license, MS Word, PowerPoint is essential.
Knowledge of Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and manage the provision of nutrition programme, food security and
Health Promotion programmes in the Department in accordance with relevant
policies. Develop school nutrition related policies and procedures and ensure
the implementation thereof. Ensure economical, efficient and effective
management and utilisation of resources allocated to the Department as
outlined in the legislative framework for good governance. Develop monitoring
and evaluation systems to ensure timeous delivery of qualitative and
quantitative supplies to benefiting school. Manage Resources (Human,
Financial and Physical Resources. Ensure the liability and sustainability of food
production and job creation of all programmes at school level. Liaise and
promote social cohesion to ensure the effective implementation of the
programme. Ensure the nutritional value of food provided through the
programme and timely delivery thereof. Ensure access and availability of
resources to the neediest schools within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
87
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/119 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISTRICT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT & ICT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), inclusive package. An all-
inclusive salary package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of
package; State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13%
of basic salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Amathole West District Office Ref No: DOE15/05/2025
Chris Hani West District Office Ref No: DOE16/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 7 in Finance/ Accounting/ Public Management or Administration/
Purchasing Management as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years relevant
experience in Supply Chain Management of which 3 years must be in Supply
Chain Management at Assistant Director Level. A post degree qualification in
the above will be an added advantage. Knowledge and experience in the
application of legislative framework that governs supply chain management in
the Public Service environment, PFMA, PPPFA, BBBEE and Treasury
Regulation. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Problem
solving, analytical skills and computer literacy. Knowledge of Logis and BAS.
Strong planning and coordination abilities. Proven management skills and a
track record in the preparation, implementation and management of strategic,
operational, and financial plans and projects. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide demand and acquisition management services to the district, circuit
offices and schools. Provide contract management services. Provide logistic,
store, asset, and fleet management services. Provide ICT support services to
the district, circuit offices and schools. Develop and implement appropriate
performance management internal controls and audit trails to ensure efficient
and effective supply chain management services. Provide strategic support,
advice, and guidance to all responsibility managers to ensure compliance with
Supply Chain Management regulations. Prepare monthly management reports
on SCM Performance and provide early warning signs to management. Follow
up and provide advice and monitor the response to SCM audit findings in line
with the agreed action plan. Identify and report on risks in respect of Supply
Chain Management within the department and recommend corrective action.
Monitor compliance with contractual terms and conditions as well as service
level standards. Ensure compliance with SCM Policy and analyse on policy
changes. Monitor SCM supplier performance and complaints register. Manage
the review of payment vouchers and report findings with recommendations to
Director. Conduct research that is informed by departmental procurement
plans. Manage the demand of goods and services. Coordinate the
development of specifications, terms of references and administer quotations/
bidding procedures. Provide demand planning and management support
services. Coordinate and oversee contractual and service level agreement
arrangement in partnership with legal services within EC. Develop and
maintain EC contract register. Monitors evaluate and report on contract
management services. Provide logistics and stores management services.
Provide asset and disposal management services. Provide fleet management
services. Identify SCM risks. Coordinate the development of SCM risk
mitigation strategies. Monitor and report on risks related to SCM performance
risk. Manage SCM systems and registers. Design and maintain SCM
performance measures and standards. Maintain high standards by ensuring
that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity
and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum
guidance from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on individual
potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford staff
adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure timeously
development and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development
Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates. Manage daily employee performance and
ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
management, maintenance, and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Harmse Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
88
POST 17/120 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: YOUTH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO:
DOE17/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), inclusive package. An all-
inclusive salary package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of
package; State contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13%
of basic salary. The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the
applicable remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 7 qualification, five (5) years’ experience in administration, 5 years’ as
Assistant Director level in public sector experience in the mainstreaming youth
development programme, computer literacy, strategic leadership, project
management, and valid driver’s license required.
DUTIES : To develop sector specific policies/strategies, mainstream youth development
within policies and programmes, and to lead in conceptualization and
implementation of sectoral programmes and projects. Coordinate provincial
structures that help coordinate youth development at all various levels. Provide
analytical research and strategic support as well as coordination role on
Eastern Cape Provincial Government departments in respect of main
streaming of youth development issues in their departmental programmes and
budgets. Development of provincial plan of action on Youth development.
Monitor the implementation of the youth strategy action plan. Development of
indicators which indicate a change in status of youth in the province, assessing
impact in improving the lives of youth in Eastern Cape. Performance review
mechanisms are to be established to continuously monitor and evaluate all
programmes as informed by the status quo report as well as the 5 years
Programme of action (POA).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Mgijima Tel No: (040) 608 4043
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/121 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: PHYSICAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(GRADE A) REF NO: DOE18/05/2025
SALARY : R879 342 – R938 061 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Electrical Engineering
or relevant qualification; Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as Professional Engineer; 3 years post qualification Electrical
Engineering experience required; Knowledge of Programme and Project
management, Architectural design and analysis, Computer-aided engineering
applications, Research and development, legal compliance, Technical report
writing, Creating high performance culture, Networking and Professional
judgement; Knowledge of Construction Industry Development Board Act and
Regulations, Government Immovable Asset Management Act (GIAMA),
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Architectural Profession Act, Engineering
Profession Act, Expanded Public Works Programme, Supply Chain
Management framework; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service
statutory frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Government
initiatives and decisions, etc. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic
thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning
and organising; Decision making; Project management; Team leadership.
DUTIES : Develop, interpret and customize functional and technical norms and
standards from an engineering perspective; Investigate proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies;
Compile briefing documentation and specifications from an engineering
perspective; Investigate electronic and electrical engineering installations and
equipment, undertake design work and implement corrective measures;
Conduct research/literature studies for continuous development with new
technologies; Participate on the budget planning and administration process;
Manage human, finance and other resources.
89
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/122 : ENGINEER: STRUCTURAL: PHYSICAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(GRADE A) REF NO: DOE19/05/2025
SALARY : R879 342 – R938 061 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : At least a BSc or BEng in Civil Engineering. A minimum of 3 years’ relevant
post qualification experience in the field of civil engineering. Compulsory
registration as a Professional Engineer with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (Professional Engineering Technologist will not be considered).
Experience in various fields of structural engineering particularly in the field of
buildings and aspects related thereto. Exposure to the main contracts used in
the civil engineering industry. Good understanding of the CIDB standard for
uniformity. Good communication skills. Excellent technical report writing and
presentation skills are required. Innovative problem-solving ability and ability
to work independently. Applied knowledge of all relevant Built Environment
legislative/regulatory requirements of National and International standards. A
valid driver’s license (minimum code B) and the ability/willingness to travel are
essential.
DUTIES : Technical evaluation of professional service providers’ and contractors’ bids.
Review and acceptance of the professional service provider’s concept and
detailed design. Assist in compilation of tender documentation. Conduct
technical inspections and integrity surveys on various structural engineering
assets. Conduct quality control over the work of the consultant and the
contractor during the execution phase of the project. Conduct minor traffic
studies under supervision of a chief engineer. Assist project managers in
resolving technical disputes arising at different stages of the project. Review
and audit final professional civil engineering accounts and construction
contract final accounts. Accept responsibility for the development,
implementation, review and regular updating of standardised structural
engineering practice manuals for the Department. Undertake in-house
designs, documentation and implementation of minor projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/123 : EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST: INCLUSIVE EDUCATION (GRADE 1)
(X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R872 709 - R957 300 per annum
CENTRE : Chris Hani West (Komani) Ref No: DOE20/05/2025
Amathole West Ref No: DOE21/05/2025
Joe Gqabi Ref No: DOE22/05/2025
Sarah Baartman (Humansdorp) Ref No: DOE23/05/2025
Nelson Mandela Bay (Merryvale School) Ref No: DOE24/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised master’s degree in Educational Psychology; registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent
Educational Psychologist; and relevant experience, knowledge, and skills in
education and psychological services. Applicants must have a sound
understanding of education and psychology legislation and policies, including
the Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Performance
Management and Development System (PMDS), Children’s Act, White Paper
6, the Policy on Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support (SIAS), and
the South African Schools Act (SASA), particularly Section 12. Strong
communication skills (both written and verbal) and excellent command of the
English language are essential.
DUTIES : The Educational Psychologist will serve as a member of the district-based
Support Team (DBST), providing psychological services within all the District
Circuit Management Centres (CMC) and/or school context. Duties include
supporting the implementation of the SIAS policy by identifying and assisting
learners experiencing barriers to learning and development. Services must
align with the Scope of the Profession of Psychologists as outlined by the
HPCSA (2008). The incumbent will be responsible for delivering a range of
psychological and therapeutic interventions, such as psychotherapy,
counselling, trauma debriefing, and making appropriate referrals to specialists.
90
Furthermore, the psychologist will design and implement educationally
responsive programmes to address learner diversity, including parental and
educator guidance, targeted interventions to address barriers to learning, and
recommendations for assessment accommodations. The role also includes
maintaining annual HPCSA registration, complying with Continuing
Professional Development (CPD) requirements, and conducting psychological
research and interventions in accordance with applicable legislation such as
the Health Professions Act, Mental Health Act, and Children’s Act, as well as
the ethical guidelines set by the HPCSA and the Professional Board for
Psychology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/124 : EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST: LSPID (GRADE 1) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R872 709 - R957 300 per annum
CENTRE : Or Tambo Inland Ref No: DOE25/05/2025
Buffalo City Metro Ref No: DOE26/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized master’s degree in educational psychology and
current Registration with the HPCSA as an Educational Psychologist.
Knowledge and understanding of all major education and psychology
legislation and policies (White Paper 6: Special Needs Education, National
Curriculum Statement, South African Schools Act, National Education Policy
Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support [SIAS] and HPCSA Code
of Ethics). Good communication skills (verbal and written) and interpersonal
skills. Computer skills. Conflict resolution skills, networking skills and excellent
presentation skills. Ability to work under pressure and in a team. A valid driver’s
license. Honesty and integrity, Professionalism, Self – driven, Teamwork. Good
communication skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English
language. Knowledge/ Skills: Public Service Act, PFMA, PMDS, Educator’s
Employment Act, Children’s Act, White Paper No 6 on Inclusive Education,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Educational Public Service Leadership,
Strategic Planning and Transformation, Education Management Development,
Research and Development, Management of Diversity, Policy Formulation and
Implementation, Leadership skills, Research skills, Co-ordination, Presentation
and Facilitation skills, Management skills, Interpersonal skills, Planning and
Organizational skills, Problem solving skills. Knowledge of Education Sector
will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Train teachers, parents and support staff in the early identification of
psychological barriers to learning and development. Train teachers, parents
and support staff to manage learners who have been identified as experiencing
psychological barriers to learning and development (e.g. Individual Support
Plan (ISP) / Group Support Plan (GSP). Develop and implement preventative
programmes for learners, parents and School Governing Body (SGBs) that
address and / or prevent psychological barriers to learning and development.
Implementation of Inclusive Policies including the Screening, Identification,
Assessment and Support (SIAS) Policy. Report quarterly on the
implementation of psychological programmes for early identification of and
interventions relating to barriers for learning and special needs to the Senior
Education Psychologist. Provide specialised psychological support to
strengthen District- and School-Based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. Maintain
annual registration and Continued Professional Development (CPD) training
according to HPCSA requirements and conduct psychological interventions
and research in accordance with guidelines for professional practice of the
HPCSA and the Professional Board for Psychology (Compliance to legislation
e.g., Health Professions Act, Mental Health Act, Children’s Act, etc.). Conduct
all relevant administrative activities relating to the core mandate of this position.
Attend district management meetings and inter-departmental meetings,
subsistence and travelling claims. Performance management (PMDS),
Database administration, leave administration, Attending to emails, Budget
(PFMA), Procurement, SASAMS, DDD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
91
POST 17/125 : EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST: LSPID (GRADE 1) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R872 709 - R957 300 per annum
CENTRE : Or Tambo Inland Ref No: DOE27/05/2025
Buffalo City Metro Ref No: DOE28/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized master’s degree in educational psychology and
current Registration with the HPCSA as an Educational Psychologist.
Knowledge and understanding of all major education and psychology
legislation and policies (White Paper 6: Special Needs Education, National
Curriculum Statement, South African Schools Act, National Education Policy
Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support [SIAS] and HPCSA Code
of Ethics). Good communication skills (verbal and written) and interpersonal
skills. Computer skills. Conflict resolution skills, networking skills and excellent
presentation skills. Ability to work under pressure and in a team. A valid driver’s
license. Honesty and integrity, Professionalism, Self – driven, Teamwork. Good
communication skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English
language. Knowledge/ Skills: Public Service Act, PFMA, PMDS, Educator’s
Employment Act, Children’s Act, White Paper No 6 on Inclusive Education,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Educational Public Service Leadership,
Strategic Planning and Transformation, Education Management Development,
Research and Development, Management of Diversity, Policy Formulation and
Implementation, Leadership skills, Research skills, Co-ordination, Presentation
and Facilitation skills, Management skills, Interpersonal skills, Planning and
Organizational skills, Problem solving skills. Knowledge of Education Sector
will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Train teachers, parents and support staff in the early identification of
psychological barriers to learning and development. Train teachers, parents
and support staff to manage learners who have been identified as experiencing
psychological barriers to learning and development (e.g. Individual Support
Plan (ISP) / Group Support Plan (GSP). Develop and implement preventative
programmes for learners, parents and School Governing Body (SGBs) that
address and / or prevent psychological barriers to learning and development.
Implementation of Inclusive Policies including the Screening, Identification,
Assessment and Support (SIAS) Policy. Report quarterly on the
implementation of psychological programmes for early identification of and
interventions relating to barriers for learning and special needs to the Senior
Education Psychologist. Provide specialised psychological support to
strengthen District- and School-Based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. Maintain
annual registration and Continued Professional Development (CPD) training
according to HPCSA requirements and conduct psychological interventions
and research in accordance with guidelines for professional practice of the
HPCSA and the Professional Board for Psychology (Compliance to legislation
e.g., Health Professions Act, Mental Health Act, Children’s Act, etc.). Conduct
all relevant administrative activities relating to the core mandate of this position.
Attend district management meetings and inter-departmental meetings,
subsistence and travelling claims. Performance management (PMDS),
Database administration, leave administration, Attending to emails, Budget
(PFMA), Procurement, SASAMS, DDD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/126 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT
(GRADE-A) REF NO: DOE29/05/2025
Candidates who applied previously for this position are advised to re-apply
SALARY : R761 157 - R816 852 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD
CENTRE : (Zwelitsha)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Quantity Survey or relevant qualification. Three (3) years of post-
qualification Quantity Surveying experience. Compulsory registration with
SACQSP as a professional Quantity Surveyor. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Experience in Quantity Surveying principles and
methodologies. Understanding of programme and project management.
Knowledge in research and development. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing, and technical consulting. Creating high-performance
culture and networking. Professional judgment and responsiveness. Good
92
communication skills both (verbal and written). Planning and organizing.
Conflict management, people management, change management and
innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Familiarity with a wide range of
quantity surveying measurement principles and specifications.
DUTIES : Develop planning and cost norms and standards issued in terms of the
Provincial Education Facilities Guidelines and National Education Norms &
Standards. Maintain planning and cost norms & standards library. Monitor that
Infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing Agent[s] comply with
approved planning and cost norms and standards. Update planning and cost
norms & standards based on learning generated through post project
evaluations and post occupancy evaluations through the provision of quantity
surveying inputs. Promote the adoption of technical and quality strategies.
Review cost determinations of projects and estimates submitted. Provide
inputs from a quantity surveyor perspective to infrastructure policies,
procedures, methods and criteria for Capex [capital], Minor capital and
maintenance projects. Make inputs to commissioning plans from a quantity
surveying perspective. Undertake extensive analysis to inform strategies
related to the quantity surveyor services to directly support and realise the
Education goals of the Department. Prepare from a Quantity Surveyor
perspective inputs to Project Briefing documents. Prepare from a Quantity
Surveyor perspective inputs to the Project Execution Plan version 1. Prepare
inputs to the Project Execution Plans versions 2-7 from a quantity surveyor
perspective and submit to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management.
Develop cash flow projections. Develop costing models. Provide inputs to life
cycle costing. Provide inputs to operational narratives from a quantity surveyor
perspective. Provide inputs to the Annual, Medium Term and Adjustment
budgets to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management. Provide inputs
to the User Asset Management Plan from a Quantity Surveyor perspective.
Provide inputs to the final project list from a Quantity Surveyor perspective.
Provide inputs to the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan and the
Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan from a Quantity Surveyor
perspective. Provide inputs to the procurement strategy from a Quantity
Surveyor perspective. Study professional journals and publications to stay
abreast of new developments. Monitor and study the education sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional development activities [tools and techniques] as
prescribed and/or required. Update the Infrastructure comprehensive planning
framework of Department in terms of research findings, new technology and
changes in the institutional environment. Interact with relevant Professional
Bodies/Councils (2).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/127 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR: PHYSICAL RESOURCE PLANNING (GRADE-A)
REF NO: DOE30/05/2025
Candidates who applied previously for this position are advised to re-apply
SALARY : R761 157 - R816 852 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Quantity Survey or relevant qualification. Three (3) years of post-
qualification Quantity Surveying experience. Compulsory registration with
SACQSP as a professional Quantity Surveyor. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Experience in Quantity Surveying principles and
methodologies. Understanding of programme and project management.
Knowledge in research and development. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing, and technical consulting. Creating high-performance
culture and networking. Professional judgment and responsiveness. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Planning and organizing.
Conflict management, people management, change management and
innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Familiarity with a wide range of
quantity surveying measurement principles and specifications.
DUTIES : Develop planning and cost norms and standards issued in terms of the
Provincial Education Facilities Guidelines and National Education Norms &
Standards. Maintain planning and cost norms & standards library. Monitor that
Infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing Agent[s] comply with
approved planning and cost norms and standards. Update planning and cost
93
norms & standards based on learning generated through post project
evaluations and post occupancy evaluations through the provision of quantity
surveying inputs. Promote the adoption of technical and quality strategies.
Review cost determinations of projects and estimates submitted. Provide
inputs from a quantity surveyor perspective to infrastructure policies,
procedures, methods and criteria for Capex [capital], Minor capital and
maintenance projects. Make inputs to commissioning plans from a quantity
surveying perspective. Undertake extensive analysis to inform strategies
related to the quantity surveyor services to directly support and realise the
Education goals of the Department. Prepare from a Quantity Surveyor
perspective inputs Project Briefing documents. Prepare from a Quantity
Surveyor perspective inputs to the Project Execution Plan version 1. Prepare
inputs to the Project Execution Plans versions 2-7 from a quantity surveyor
perspective and submit to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management.
Develop cash flow projections. Develop costing models. Provide inputs to life
cycle costing. Provide inputs to operational narratives from a quantity surveyor
perspective. Provide inputs to the Annual, Medium Term and Adjustment
budgets to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management. Provide inputs
to the User Asset Management Plan from a Quantity Surveyor perspective.
Provide inputs to the final project list from a Quantity Surveyor perspective.
Provide inputs to the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan and the
Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan from a Quantity Surveyor
perspective. Provide inputs to the procurement strategy from a Quantity
Surveyor perspective. Study professional journals and publications to stay
abreast of new developments. Monitor and study the education sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional development activities [tools and techniques] as
prescribed and/or required. Update the Infrastructure comprehensive planning
framework of Department in terms of research findings, new technology and
changes in the institutional environment. Interact with relevant Professional
Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/128 : ARCHITECT: PHYSICAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (GRADE A) REF
NO: DOE31/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R761 157 - R816 852 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total
package to be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification, three (3) years’ post
qualification experience in Architectural field, Registration with SACAP as a
Professional Architect. A valid Drivers’ license. Knowledge of Architectural
Design and analysis knowledge, Architectural principles Project Management,
Computer-aided engineering applications, Research and development, Public
Finance Management Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Supply Chain
Management, Contract Management. Ability to undertake critical
review/analysis and provide technical advice, ability to maintain integrity of
confidential information, financial administration, effective verbal
communication, advanced technical report writing, numeracy, computer
literacy, planning and organising, relationship management, programme and
project management, interpersonal and diplomacy skills, problem solving,
decision making, motivational skills, conflict resolution, negotiation skills,
analytical thinking, innovative, creative, solution orientated, ability to work
under stressful situations, ability to communicate at all levels, people oriented
trustworthy, assertive, hard-working, ability to work independently, prepared to
travel. Willing to adapt to working schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state-owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture, ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements, provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions, ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies,
develop architectural related policies, methods and practices, provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs, review plans, drawings,
specifications, and estimates accomplished by building, designers and/or sub-
professional personnel, ensure adherence to the requirements of professional
94
registration. Human capital development: Mentor and train candidate architects
and related technical and administrative personnel to promote skills/knowledge
transfer and adherence to sound architectural principles and code of practice,
supervise architectural work and processes, Administer Performance
management and development. Office administration and budget planning;
Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of
resource utilisation, ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for
procurement SCM and human resource administration, monitor and control
expenditure, report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development; Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures, research/literature studies on architecture to
improve expertise, liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/129 : CANDIDATE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGERS REF NO:
DOE32/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(Contract Posts)
SALARY : R761 157 - R807 864 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration salary
package in line with the Occupational Specific Dispensation for Engineering
Professionals)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : National Higher Diploma in Build environment field with a minimum of 18
months’ experience/ Three-year Degree or National Diploma (NQF 6) in any
Built Environment field with a minimum of 2 years’ experience/ BTech degree
in any Built Environment field with a minimum of 1 year experience / Honours
degree in any Built Environment field with no experience; A Code 08 driver’s
license; Willingness to travel extensively and work irregular hours; Compulsory
30 Registration with the South African Council for the Project and Construction
Management Profession (SACPCMP) as a Candidate Construction Project
Manager upon appointment; Compulsory knowledge of Government
Immovable Asset Management Act (GIAMA) and Framework for Infrastructure
Delivery and Procurement Management; Contract management experience
including contract specification, oversight, and monitoring; Knowledge and
understanding of the Project Management principles and methodologies;
Knowledge of legal compliance; Research and development; Computer-aided
engineering applications; Technical report writing; planning and organizing
skills; Problem solving and analysis; Presentation and communication
technologies; Document management systems; The ability to work an d
manage projects in a complex environment; Decision making; Team work;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication skills.
DUTIES : To manage and oversee all aspects of the projects in support of the
management of capital and technical maintenance projects under the
supervision of the Director: Facilities Management; Project planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology; Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs; Identify resources needed and assign
individual responsibilities; Manage day-to-day operational aspects of a project
and scope; Effectively apply methodology and enforce project standards to
minimize risk on projects; Report project progress to the Director: Infrastructure
Development; Manage project budget and resources in consultation with the
Director: Facilities Management; Office administration: Provide inputs to
Director: Facilities Management with tender administration; Liaise and interact
with service providers, client and management under the guidance of the
Director: Facilities Management; Contribute to the human resources and
related activities; Maintain the record management system and the
architectural library; Utilize resources allocated effectively; Prepare quarterly
reports, project status/site visit reports. Keep up with new Built Environment
technologies and procedures; Research/literature on new developments on
project management methodologies; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
project management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mduba Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
95
POST 17/130 : EDUCATION THERAPIST SPECIALIST - SPEECH AND LANGUAGE
THERAPIST: INCLUSIVE EDUCATION REF NO: DOE33/05/2025 (GRADE
1) (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 550 per annum
CENTRE : Chris Hani West Ref No: 34/05/2025
Or Tambo Coastal Ref No: 35/05/2025
Joe Gqabi Ref No: 36/05/2025
Alfred Nzo East Ref No: 37/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor's Degree in Speech-Language Therapy that allows for registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Current
registration as a Speech-Language Therapist with the HPCSA is required, and
proof of this registration must be provided. Applicants should have at least 5
years of relevant experience as a Speech-Language Therapist following their
community service. Experience as an Education Therapist will be considered
an added advantage. A valid driver's license is required.
DUTIES : To provide therapeutic and educational services to Public Ordinary and Public
Special Schools within the Education District. Implement therapeutic capacity-
building programmes for early identification of interventions relating to barriers
to learning. Train educators, parents and support staff in the early identification
of learning barriers particularly barriers to accessing the curriculum.; Conduct
assessments; provide short term curriculum interventions to learners
experiencing barriers to learning. Provide specialised therapeutic support to
strengthen District and School-based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Collaborate as multi-disciplinary teams with DBST to support learners
experiencing therapeutic barriers to learning. Provide therapeutic support
advisory services to SBST. Provide direct therapeutic support services to
learners when necessary. Monitor support progammes for learners with high
level needs referred and not yet placed in Special Schools or High-Level
Support Programmes. Conduct discipline specific research (Speech and
Language) and gather information to identify trends and address these needs
within the district. Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and
collaborations. Collaborate on therapeutic support matters with multi-
disciplinary teams at the Special Schools / Resource Centres and Full-Service
Schools / Inclusive Schools to include learners who experience curriculum
barriers to learning. Provide/manage professional supervision of the therapists
in Public Special Schools within the District. Monitor and support the process
of assessment, reporting, referrals and placement of learners according to
levels of need. Monitor and support the implementation of administration- and
record-keeping processes. Ensure the compliance of Therapists in the special
schools to the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) Continuous
Professional Development (CPD) policy. Report on the implementation of
therapeutic support intervention programmes for early identification of barriers
to learning, therapeutic participation in and contributions to inter- and intra-
sectoral networks, therapeutic interventions. Monitor and manage assistive
devices Knowledge of: Inclusive Education (IE) policies (White Paper 6);
Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support (SIAS) policy; Guidelines
on the development of Full-service/Inclusive Schools; Guidelines on the
development of Special Schools as Resource Centres; Care and Support for
Teaching and Learning (CSTL); Integrated School Health Policy. Skills:
Therapeutic assessment and techniques; Multi-disciplinary teamwork;
Preventative and developmental approach; Development of training
programmes; Report writing; Analysis of data and trends; Therapeutic research
methodology; Communication, consultation and facilitation skills; Computer
literacy; Presentation skills and organising and planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/131 : CHIEF EDUCATION THERAPIST SPEECH AND LANGUAGE THERAPIST:
LSPID (GRADE 1) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R577 770 - R638 856 per annum
CENTRE : OR Tambo Inland Ref No: DOE38/05/2025
Nelson Mandela Bay Ref No: DOE39/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : RVQ 13/14 qualification in Speech & Language Therapist and Audiologist
recognised by SAQA. Registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as Speech Therapist and Audiology. Registration with
96
the South African Council for Educators (SACE). None after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of RSA
qualified therapists who performed Community Service, as required in South
Africa. One-year relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of foreign qualified
therapists, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa.
DUTIES : Assess the learner’s level of functioning to identify barriers to learning based
on the Speech/Language Therapists’ scope of practice: Conduct screening for
the learners; administer formal and informal assessments. Analyse and
interpret information to make decisions regarding the need for therapeutic
intervention, engage in multidisciplinary team discussions and make
recommendations and/or referrals. Provide intervention (direct and indirect
therapy) relating to barriers to learning: Provide direct and indirect Speech-
Language Therapy services based on an Speech-Language Therapy plan to
learners in public special schools and public ordinary schools; determine
individualized and group Speech-Language Therapy; prescribe, issue and
maintain assistive devices; maintain records of Speech/Language Therapy,
effective administration practices and report to supervisors as required:
Engage in therapeutic capacity-building programmes and skills sharing on
related therapy matters: Provide appropriate information regarding
programmes offered by therapists to internal and external stakeholders (e.g.
School Based Support Team, District Based Support Team, parents etc.).
Promote awareness of the different therapy disciplines; participate in
awareness campaigns of different disabilities; provide direct or indirect
outreach services when required; engage in continuous professional
developmental activities based on the relevant programmes offered in the
school; supervise undergraduate Speech/Language Therapy students as
required. Manage Therapy support materials and equipment: Request
appropriate and adequate Speech-Language Therapy support materials and
equipment based on learner needs; safeguard therapy support materials and
equipment; maintain records of therapy material, equipment and the issuing of
assistive devices and report faults and maintenance needs of the materials and
equipment; participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations.
Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations: Collaborate
and interact with stakeholders (e.g., Department of Health, Department of
Social Development, Non-Profit Organizations, Non-Governmental
Organizations, local government, and the broader Community). Advocate for
learners who experience barriers to learning; liaising with therapists from other
special schools and sharing best practices and experiences; liaison with
relevant professional boards and tertiary institutions; participate in extra-mural
and co-curricular activities. Management and Administration: Manage effective
administration practices of Speech/Language Therapy interventions; ensure
compliance with the code of Ethics of the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA); practice sound interpersonal relations, engage actively in
performance appraisals per requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL NUTRITION REF NO: DOE40/05/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 6/7 equivalent qualification in Financial Management / Project
Management / Public Management or Administration or a closely related field
as recognized by SAQA; Five (5) years’ experience working in the relevant
area of which 3 years must be at supervisory level (LEVEL 7/8). A post degree
qualification in the above will be an added advantage Knowledge of relevant
education policies and current trends in the field of education and nutrition.
Knowledge of the Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements (CAPS).
Knowledge of policy formulation. Knowledge of project and financial
management. Knowledge of research methods and tools. Good knowledge of
the public sector in a legislative and regulatory environment. Proven
experience in report writing. A valid driver’s license is a prerequisite. Skills
required: Coordination, facilitation, analytical and creative skills. Strong report-
writing skills and communication (verbal and written) skills. Attention to detail
97
and high level of accuracy. Effective public relations and public speaking skills.
Critical thinking skills and self-discipline. Ability to work well under pressure
with minimum supervision. Leadership, management, conflict resolution skills;
Strong organizing, planning and problem-solving skills, Supervisory and Inter-
personal skills, Proven ability to engage in proactive and informative
discussions at all levels; A high degree of sound judgement in dealing with
Government Officials, counterparts, partners, and other role-players.
Computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint. Ability to work
without supervision; Ability to meet targets and deadlines; Strong verbal and
written communication skills; Be innovative; Willingness to work after hours and
be prepared to travel; Valid Code 8 driver’s license. Have a passion for making
a positive contribution in the South African Education Sector. Knowledge of
Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide support on guidance on the implementation of related legislative
frameworks: Provide guidance on the implementation, monitoring and
reporting of integrated strategy, policies, and procedure for nutrition services.
Develop and monitor the implementation of the related plans and programmes.
Provide support on the implementation of school nutrition programme in the
department: Coordinate the implementation of the conditional grant for the
school nutrition programme. Report on the implementation of the conditional
grant for the school nutrition programme. Provide support to districts on the
management of the school nutrition fund. Manage the allocated resources of
the Sub-directorate in line with legislative and departmental policy directives
and comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives. Maintain
high standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in
terms of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and
control with minimum guidance from manager. Delegate functions to staff
based on individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and
afford staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure timeous
development and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development
Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates. Manage daily employee performance and
ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
management, maintenance, and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL HEALTH AND LIFE SKILLS REF NO:
DOE41/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF 6/7 qualification in Health Promotion/Nutrition and Health
Promotion/Public Health or related field. Five years’ experience of which 3
years’ relevant experience in School Health and Life Skills field must be at
supervisory level (7/8). The following key competencies and attributed are
essential: Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills; Project
management skills; Excellent communication skills (verbal and written); Good
human relations; Ability to meet commitments and produce results; Conflicts
management skills; Self-assured and confident in own abilities; Ability to be
calm and reliable when under pressure; willingness to work irregular hours
when required. Applicants must be in possession of a valid driver’s license.
Skills: Problem solving and decision making. Team leader. Planning and
Organising. Managing interpersonal conflicts & resolving problems.
Networking and building bonds. Impact and influence. Diversity management.
Develop others. Citizen focus and responsiveness. Communication and
information management. Budgeting and financial management. Knowledge of
Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide technical and operational support to the planning, programming and
monitoring of implementation of the HIV programmes. Compilation of
Conditional Grant report and other relevant documents. Plans organize and
conduct training and orientation activities for schools participating in the CSTL
programme, for the purpose of capacity building and expansion of coverage of
HIV & AIDS services for learners and educators. Provide leadership and
guidance to Learner Support Agents and Supervisors. Undertake field visits
and surveys in order to monitor and evaluate CSTL implementation. Identify
problems and propose remedial action. Identify alternative courses of action,
to accelerate/ improve CSTL programme.). Provide project management
98
expertise for current projects such as Small Holder Farmer Pilot, Deworming
of Grades R-7 Learners and Hand Washing, Sanitation and Oral Hygiene
(WASH) as well as for future projects such as Individual Targeting of learners
for NSNP beneficiation in Quintiles 4 and 5 schools AND rolling out of Breakfast
in all Quintile 1-3 Schools. Initiate any other project as may be required
including establishing and “standardizing” project management processes,
which can reduce the upfront time and cost of initiating each project. Build the
capacity of Districts and Schools around running and imminent NSNP projects.
Forge networks and partnerships with relevant stakeholders. As part of the EC
accountability value addition cooperate with the relevant knowledge
management unit to contribute to the centralized repository of project
management knowledge, best practices, and resources. Mobilize project
resources for specific projects activities, such as initial Project Planning;
Project Monitoring and performance measurements; and review of project
deliverables.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/134 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT
AND INFRUSTRUCTURE REF NO: DOE42/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : 3 Year tertiary qualifications in relevant areas and/or extensive administrative
experience in the IT related field. Driver’s license. 5 years applicable
experience. Recommendations: Broad ICT procedures and practices. ICT
Security practices. Information Management practices. Budgeting procedures
and practices. Broad administrative knowledge. Personnel Evaluation
procedures. Human resource management practices. Analytical Skills; Writing
Skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To manage both first- and second-line support to all users within the
department. To support the development, management and control of ICT
Systems including the departmental website. To manage the planning,
implementation and maintenance of both external and internal information
technology projects e.g. the roll-out of IT within the respective district offices.
To plan, coordinate and manage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. procedures. Sage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. To develop and ensure the successful implementation of
ICT procurement policies and strategies. To ensure the rendering of an
effective and efficient secretariat and advisory service to the Departmental IT
Committee in line with procurement and asset management procedures. SITA
liaison and service level management (agreements). Keep and maintain a
register of all IT equipments in the Department, including the disposal thereof
in terms of Treasury regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Nototo Tel No: (040) 608 4200
POST 17/135 : PROJECT OFFICER: HIV/AIDS LIFE SKILLS CONDITIONAL GRANT
(CONTRACT) REF NO: DOE43/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF 7 qualification in Project Management/or related field and at least 3
year’s relevant experience in Project Management field. The following key
competencies and attributed are essential: Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills; Project management skills; Excellent communication skills
(verbal and written); Good human relations; Ability to meet commitments and
produce results; Conflicts management skills; Self-assured and confident in
own abilities; Ability to be calm and level-headed under pressure; willingness
to work irregular hours when required. Applicants must be in possession of a
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide technical and operational support to the planning, programming and
monitoring of implementation of the HIV programmes. Compilation of
Conditional Grant report and other relevant documents. Plan, organize and
conduct training and orientation activities for schools participating in the CSTL
programme, for the purpose of capacity building and expansion of coverage of
HIV & AIDS services for learners and educators. Provide leadership and
guidance to Learner Support Agents and Supervisors. Undertake field visits
99
and surveys in order to monitor and evaluate CSTL implementation. Identify
problems and proposes remedial action. Identify alternative courses of action,
to accelerate/ improve CSTL programme).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/136 : SOCIAL WORKER: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT (GRADE 1) (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 - R382 374 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : BCM CMC-King Williams Town Ref No: DOE44/05/2025
Joe Gqabi (Mount Fletcher) Ref No: DOE45/05/2025
Amathole West: Peddie CMC Ref No: DOE 46/05/2025
Amathole West: Amahlathi CMC Ref No: 47/05/2025
Amathole East: Dutywa CMC Ref No: 48/05/2025
Sarah Baartman: Graaf Reinet CMC Ref No: 49/05/2025
Sarah Baartman: Humansdorp Ref No: 50/05/2025
OR Tambo Coastal: Ntabankulu CMC Ref No: 51/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : BA degree in Social Work. Registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions. Computer literate. Valid driver’s license.
Competencies And Attributes: Problem solving and decision making,
facilitation, planning, organize, lead and control, project management,
presentation and counselling skills. Ability to interpret policy/legislation. Conflict
management, coaching and mentoring. Understanding of Public Service policy
and legislative framework. Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and
honesty. Assertiveness, willingness to travel, influence and impact and ability
to network. Ability to coordinate and collaborate with internal and external
stakeholders.
DUTIES : Provide needs-based social work services to offenders through individual
attention, group work, community work, research and social work
administration. Conduct individual assessments. Market social work services.
Monitor and evaluate social work, intervention work, community work, research
and social work administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Chiliza Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/137 : SECRETARY: EXECUTIVE GOVERNACE & SUPPORT REF NO:
DOE52/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R 268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language.
Knowledge of the Public Service Legislative Framework. Proven competent
knowledge of basic office administration practice. Knowledge of procurement
systems Competencies: Computer Literacy, Excellent Communication Skills,
Administration Skills, People Skills, Organisational Skills, Typing and Writing
Skills, Strong Leadership Skills, Basic financial recording, minute taking and
report writing skills. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial /receptionist support service to the Director as follows:
Receives telephone calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not
meant for the relevant manager. Records appointments and events in the diary
of the manager. Types documents for the manager and the other staff within
the unit on a word processor. Operate office equipment like fax machines and
photocopiers. Provides a clerical support services to the manager. This will
entail the following: Liaises with agencies to make travel documents
arrangements, Checks the arrangements when the relevant documents are
received. Arrange meetings and events for the manager and the staff in the
unit. Identifies venues, invites role player, and organizes refreshments and set
up schedules for meeting and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for unit. Processes all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the manager. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the manager
where required. Drafts routine correspondence and reports. Does filing of
documents for the manager. Administers matters like the leave register sand
telephone accounts. Handles the procurement of standard. Receives records
and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the manager to prepare for meetings. Remains up to date
100
about prescript / policies and procedures applicable to her / his work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the Director.
ENQUIRIES Mr. NP Mtshotane Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/138 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: YOUTH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF
NO: DOE53/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Mgijima Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/139 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CLUSTER-A REF NO: DOE54/05/2025 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
101
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BM Madonsela Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/140 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CLUSTER B REF NO: DOE55/05/2025 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BM Madonsela Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/141 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOE56/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
102
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Govind Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/142 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DOE57/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE Arah Bartman (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
mainta03in personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr De Bruyn Tel No: (047) 491 0647
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/143 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEARNER DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL
SUPPORT REF NO: DOE58/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Bay (Gqebera)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
103
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
mainta03in personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/145 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TRAINING INSTIUTUTE TECHNICAL AND
VOCATIONAL REF NO: DOE59/05/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Bay (Gqebera)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
mainta03in personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Hendricks Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/146 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EARLY CHILDWOOD DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DOE60/05/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : BCM CMC-King Williams Town Ref No: DOE61/05/2025 (X2 Posts)
Amathole West -Fort Beaufort Ref No: DOE 62/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Amathole West-Amahlathi Ref No: 63/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Amathole East- Dutywa Cmc Ref No: 64/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Amathole East -Elliotdale Ref No: 65/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Sarah Baartman-Humansdorp Ref No: 66/05/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate with no experience required. Effective communication
skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English language
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Act and Employment of Educator Act. Effective verbal and written
communication skills. Well-developed reasoning mathematical, innovative
thinking as well as problem solving ability, ability to execute variety of task and
be able to work under pressure. Knowledge of Education Sector will be added
advantage.
104
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics Handle routine enquiries Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required
Keep and maintain the filing system for the component Type basic letters
and/or other correspondence when required Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing register of the component Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component Arrange travelling and accommodation
Provide financial administration support services in the component Capture
and update expenditure in component Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Chiliza Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 17/147 : DATA CAPTURER: HIV/AIDS LIFE SKILLS CONDITIONAL GRANT REF
NO: DOE67/05/2025 (X5 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and no experience needed. Practical experience in MS
Office Package e.g. Excel, Word etc. will be used as added advantage. Good
Communication. Understanding the Public Service policies, prescripts and
guidelines. Knowledge of the Basic Condition of Employment.
DUTIES : Capture documentation for processing and information using spread sheet to
ensure that the information is capture correctly and verified and validated for
Peer Group Trainers and Learner Support Agents. Checking for accuracy and
amend where necessary and deal with queries regarding data captured and
recognize and identify problems and report to the supervisor and avail the
information captured to the Directorate. Store and maintain captured data and
document to ensure correct storage according to standard archive procedures.
Input information on applicable data basis. Prepare documentation for the
payment of LSA’s. Liaison with districts for monthly reports for the payment of
LSA’s. Filling and logistics for HIV & Aids Programmes. Write and submit
reports on monthly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Zenzile Tel No: (040) 608 4200
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : The applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment
system available at: https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/ (to view the vacancies
without logging-in click on: Jobs). The e-Recruitment System is available 24/7
and closes at 23:59 on the Closing Date. Report any e-recruitment challenges;
activation of profile, password resets, etc by sending an email with your ID
Number, profile email address, details of the challenge to: e-
recruitment@ecotp.gov.za. Applications submitted via this email address will
be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Technical support is limited to
working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday.
Applicants are encouraged to submit using the e-recruitment system
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025. No late/ Faxed/ Posted, Hand-delivered, and e-Mailed
applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply. For SMS (Senior
Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
105
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve 12/24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/148 : DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO: OTP 01/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, An NQF level 7 (B. Tech/Degree/Advanced
Diploma) as recognized by SAQA in Public Administration/Management,
Development Studies, Social Sciences, Social Work or any related field. 5
years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level within the Public
Service environment and NGOs. A valid driver’s license EB. Pre-Entry
certificate for the Senior Management Services (SMS). Sound insight into the
South African and global economy. In depth understanding of legislative
framework that governs the Public Service, Sound knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act, Government planning framework, Sound
knowledge and understanding of the Government Planning cycle (MTEF and
Strategic Planning), Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation, Governance,
Innovation and Knowledge Management. Key Competencies: -Strategic
Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Budget and
Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management.
Project Management, Information Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication (verbal & written), Computer
Literacy, Extensive strategic planning, Programme management, financial
management skills. Practical experience in the development of policies and
106
high-level policy implementation skills. Insight into the South African and global
economy.
DUTIES : Lead in the coordination of transformation and special programmes working
with all spheres of government and sectors of society. Promotion of initiatives
focusing on people with disabilities. Facilitate efforts towards the advancement
of children’s and older people’s rights. Guide the province towards
enhancement of the status of women and gender development. Establish
mechanisms to coordinate the mitigation of violence against women and
children. Monitor, evaluate and report the rollout of transformation and
mainstreaming programmes to designated groups with emphasis on
communities in disadvantaged areas. Ensure institutionalized days for
designated groups are commemorated within the context of International,
Regional and National directives. Ensure effective and efficient coordination of
the system of special programmes in the Provincial Government. Manage the
allocated resources of the directorate in line with legislative and departmental
policy directives and comply with corporate governance and planning
imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Ms. N. Mafu at 082 562 2347
POST 17/149 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMY, TRADE AND INVESTMENT REF NO: OTP
02/05/2025
(Fixed term contract of 12 months)
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration
package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate: B-Degree or B-Tech (NQF Level 7) as recognized
by SAQA undergraduate in Economics / Development Economics /Business
Admin or any related field. An additional postgraduate qualification in
Economics/ Commerce related field/ Public Management will be an added
advantage. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
Economy Trade and Investment area, Policy coordination, development and
research environment. A valid driver’s license, Code EB. Pre-Entry certificate
for the Senior Management Services (SMS) is compulsory. Advanced
knowledge of strategy development, management, and coordination.
Knowledge of legislation, prescripts, policies and frameworks related to
Economy Trade and Investments. Advanced knowledge of policy formulation,
implementation and review. Key Competencies: -Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Budget and Financial
Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management. Information
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis,
People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus, Communication (verbal & written), Computer Literacy. Practical
experience in the development of policies and high-level policy implementation
skills. Insight into the South African and global economy.
DUTIES : Render strategic policy advisory services on economic development, trade,
and investment in the province. Co-ordinate and support all relevant Institutions
in the Province on economic development, trade and investment. Provide
strategic advice on all matters pertaining to economy, trade and investment in
the province and for the benefit of the province. Facilitate the positioning of the
Eastern Cape as an investment destination and promote collaborations that
will foster international trade partnerships with the province. Co-ordinate
advocacy on trade and investment in the province: in collaboration with
relevant partners, facilitate establishment of platforms for comprehensive
briefings to South African Heads of Diplomatic Missions and Trade Attachés
on the strengths of the Eastern Cape as a destination for FDI, tourism and
export opportunities prior to their departure for posting abroad. Facilitate
capacity building on international trade and investment for all Provincial
Government institutions to promote conducive trade and investment
environment across the province. Facilitate establishment of relations with
Trade/Investment Attachés of all major economic hubs that are prioritized in
the Provincial International Relations and Cooperation Strategy. Identify
opportunities for the Eastern Cape to receive exposure in influential
international publications and audiences. Ensure strategic positioning of the
Eastern Cape in DIRCO, DTIC, Brand SA and other relevant institutions to
ensure that the Eastern Cape participates in outward trade and investment
missions and further hosts inward trade, investment and tourism
107
missions/exhibitions. Ensure the provision of economic development policy
analysis and research support to Economic Advisors in the Province: Create a
repository of accurate, reliable socio-economic data on investment
opportunities, incentives and regulatory framework which could be customized
into a pitch for responding to investor enquiries. Facilitate capacity building
programmes and support departments, district municipalities, metros and
public entities on economic development, trade and investment policy
development processes. Co-ordinate relevant role players, economic sector
advisory councils and working groups. Establish economic advisory councils
and working groups. Revise and reconstruct the economic development
councils and propose revised structure and terms of reference. Develop an
annual calendar of meetings and events. Provide secretariat support to the
platforms. Foster and manage collaboration with relevant role players
including DEDEAT, ECDC, ELIDZ, COEGA IDZ, the ECPTA, metropolitan and
district municipalities, etc, in ensuring mainstreaming of trade and investment
in all twinning arrangements with international partners. Track and monitor
implementation of the provincial economic development priorities and flagship
projects. Conduct an analysis and validation of Economic Development
Flagship projects. Assess and develop status progress reports on the
implementation of the Economic Development Flagship projects. Present the
Economic Development Flagship projects to decision making platforms.
Monitor implementation of resolutions of economic advisory structures and
platforms. Manage the allocated resources of the directorate in line with
legislative and departmental policy directives and comply with corporate
governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Ms. N. Mafu at 082 562 2347
POST 17/150 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC RELATIONS, MARKETING AND BRAND
MANAGEMENT REF NO: OTP 03/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 43 355 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration
package.
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, An NQF level 7 (B. Tech/Degree/Advanced
Diploma) as recognized by SAQA in Strategic Brand Communication, Public
Relations, Corporate Communications, Marketing Management, Journalism.
Five (5) years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level within the field
of Communication, Public Relations, Brand Management. A valid driver’s
license. Pre-Entry certificate for the Senior Management Services (SMS) is
compulsory. Key Competencies: Applied Strategic Thinking, Applying
Technology, Budgeting and Financial Management, Communication and
Information Management, Excellent writing skills, Continuous Improvement,
Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing Others, Diversity
Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict and
Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and
Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management,
Team Leadership.
DUTIES : Brand Management: Develop and implement comprehensive brand strategies
to achieve ECPG goals, build and maintain a positive public image, and
enhance Eastern Cape brand equity. Oversee all brand management activities,
including brand positioning, messaging and identity. Ensure consistent brand
messaging and positioning across all marketing channels. Ensure the
development and application of brand assets, ensuring consistent messaging
and visual identity across all channels (traditional and digital media channels).
Develop and maintain the ECPG brand guidelines and standards. Analyze
communication research reports to understand stakeholder needs and
perceptions. Analyze brand performance data to identify trends, opportunities
and areas for improvement. Oversee the creation and distribution of brand
content across various channels. Develop and implement social media
strategies to increase brand presence and engagement. Oversee digital
marketing initiatives related to brand management. Identify strategic
opportunities for the Eastern Cape to receive exposure in influential
publications and audiences to drive brand awareness. Partner and collaborate
with relevant stakeholders including departments, entities and municipalities to
align branding and marketing of the province to national and international
audiences. Public Relations & Event Management: Manage public relations
activities, including events management. Develop and maintain relationships
108
with key stakeholders including industry influencers. Facilitate the development
and implementation of an annual calendar of strategic events to showcase
brand Eastern Cape. Develop and implement marketing campaigns,
advertising and online media strategy aligned to the overall ECPG objectives.
Provide strategic support in planning, organizing and execution of provincial
and OTP events. Support line function managers in the development of event
concepts and provide strategic advice to improve brand interface with
stakeholders. Manage and coordinate the development of policies and
frameworks to guide provincial government brand and marketing management
initiatives in line with national protocols. Manage the coordination of transversal
platforms to enhance collaboration, promote the sharing of best practices and
ensure the functionality of the Branding and Marketing Forum. General
Management Responsibilities: Facilitate the identification of risks and support
the development of departmental risk management interventions for PR,
Marketing and Brand Management practices and processes in departments.
Manage the allocated resources (human, financial and physical) of the
directorate in line with legislative and departmental policy directives and
comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Ms. N. Mafu at 082 562 2347
POST 17/151 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE STRATEGY AND PLANNING REF NO:
OTP 04/05/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration
package.
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric with an NQF level 7 (B. Tech/Degree/Advanced Diploma) in Human
Resource Management, Labour Relations, Public Policy, Public
Administration, Human Resources Development. 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level within Human Resources Planning field. A valid
driver’s license is required. Pre-Entry certificate for the Senior Management
Services (SMS) is compulsory. Key Competencies: Applied Strategic Thinking,
Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial Management, Communication
and Information Management, Excellent writing skills, Continuous
Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing Others,
Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict
and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and
organizing, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management, Team
Leadership.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the development and implementation of the HRM &D
policies, strategies and frameworks: Manage the provision of support in the
development and implementation of HRM&D policies, strategies and
frameworks in provincial departments and ensure alignment with national and
provincial strategies and policies. Provide policy advocacy to ensure the
institutionalisation of the HRM&D policy framework in the province. Promote
the maintenance of employee wellness and diversity management in the
province by facilitating the provision of strategic and technical support. Develop
and implement employment equity policies and action plans. Ensure
compliance with national employment equity legislation and regulations (e.g.,
Employment Equity Act, EEOC guidelines). Collaborate with leadership to align
employment equity strategies with organizational goals. Facilitate mechanisms
for improvement of HRM&D practices and processes in provincial departments:
Facilitate the provision of support and the monitoring of the implementation of
EW in departments. Manage the coordination of transversal functional fora,
promote the sharing of best practices and ensure the functionality. Facilitate
the identification of risks and support the development of departmental risk
management interventions for HRM&D practices and processes in
departments. Conduct equity audits and workforce analyses to identify gaps in
representation and advancement. Oversee the coordination of the HR
Effectiveness Assessment in provincial departments as well as the
development and implementation of turn around plans. Manage the facilitation
of the development and implementation of credible HR plans and talent
management plans that are aligned to the strategic plans and service delivery
requirements of the departments: Manage the facilitation and coordination of
the development and implementation of credible HR Plans in provincial
departments in line with the National Guidelines. Manage the facilitation of the
development and implementation of attraction, retention and succession
109
management plans in provincial departments. Facilitate the development of,
and monitor implementation of employment equity plans in order to achieve set
national targets. Manage the allocated resources of the directorate in line with
legislative and departmental policy directives and comply with corporate
governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Ms. N. Mafu at 082 562 2347
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/152 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISOR: LEGISLATION REF NO: OTP 05/05/2025
SALARY : R1 195 110 per annum (OSD – LP 9), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS LB (or as otherwise determined by the Minister of Justice and Constitutional
Development). Admission as an Attorney or Advocate. At least 8 years’
appropriate post admission legislative drafting and advisory experience.
Applicants must understand the public service prescripts/laws and its
application. A valid driver’s license. A qualification in Legislative Drafting will
be an advantage. Key Competencies: - Sound knowledge of constitutional and
administrative law, legislative drafting and advice, knowledge of statutory and
case law, regulations, prescripts and policies. Sound administrative skills and
computer literacy is also essential. Knowledge and experience in the furnishing
of legal advice and opinions, analytical skills, communication skills and legal
research. Ability to capacitate government officials on certain laws.
DUTIES : Drafting legislation for all client departments; Providing advice and legal
opinions to the Office of the Premier and provincial government departments;
Conduct the desktop analysis of legislation; Research and analyse
constitutional court judgements and concurrent National Legislation to ensure
that provincial legislation is aligned with national legislation and complies with
the Constitutional Court judgements; Conduct research based on instructions
received. Support client departments on policy formulation. Provide input on
draft Bills; Render support with analyzing of draft Bills together with the client
departments; Support the client departments in the public consultation on the
proposed Bills; Support the client departments through the Executive Council
processes for approval of the Bills; Assist with the translation of the Bills;
Prepare the necessary documents for the submission of the Bills to the
Legislature; Assist with the preparation for portfolio committee meetings;
Support the legislature in public hearings on Bills. Manage area of
responsibility: Supervise and co-ordinate the effective and efficient running and
management of the Legislation directorate. Assist in the review of the
Legislation directorate’s performance and make recommendations to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness thereof. Report on the Legislation directorate’s
information as required by internal and external stakeholders. Co-ordinate the
effective and efficient running and management of the Legislation directorate.
Develop and implement service delivery improvement programmes. Develop
the implementation of the Legislation directorate’s Annual Operational Plans.
Monitor and report on the implementation thereof monthly, quarterly and
annually. Ensure that performance agreements and development plans are
developed and implemented for all staff in the Legislation directorate within set
timeframes.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/153 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATION REF NO: OTP 06/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with NQF Level 6/7 (Diploma/bachelor’s degree) as
recognised by SAQA in Human Resource Development/ Public
Administration/Management, Developmental Studies, Training and
Development, Education or equivalent qualification. Minimum of three (3)
years’ experience at Assistant Director level within the skills development
environment. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge required : Advanced
knowledge and understanding of the Skills Development Act and related
110
legislations, Research experience related to skills development is necessary,
Team leadership, Budgeting and Financial Management; Communication and
Information Management; Citizen Focus and Responsiveness; Diversity
Management; Impact and Influence; Managing Interpersonal Relations and
Resolving Problems; Networking; Planning and Organising; Project
Management. Excellent presentation skills. Attention to detail. Excellent
Communication skills (written/ verbal). Strategic thinker and problem solver.
Excellent computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, web and email
packages). Ability to travel across the province and work long hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate special skills development projects and programmes:
Contribute the development of the Provincial Skills Development Strategy and
Plan, monitor implementation and ensure alignment with National Strategies.
Liaise and coordinate stakeholder engagements e.g. Provincial Skills
Development Forum (PSDF). Source, manage and report on funding from skills
development funding agencies, including SETAS. Liaison with public and
private sector employers for placement. Coordinate, monitor and report on
learnerships, internships, apprenticeships and other skills programme relating
to youth public service employees: Develop and facilitate provincial reporting
tools and standards to ensure compliance to stakeholder requirements.
Coordinate the development of required skills in identified priority areas such
as ocean economy, infrastructure in spatial planning. Facilitate the
implementation of the provincial bursary interventions including Premiers
scholarships, academic institutions and departmental based bursaries and
overseas studies. Coordinate funding priorities supporting learnerships,
internships and apprenticeships. Provide learner support to the youth
programmes to stakeholders and learners. Implement awareness and
advocacy interventions that support the implementation of learnerships,
internships and apprenticeships. Monitor and report on the implementation of
learnerships, internships and apprenticeships. Coordinate and monitor the
placement of youth in workplaces, including provincial departments to enable
them to gain experiential learning, report on the effectiveness thereof: Facilitate
placements, workplace and learner agreements in line with the contractual
arrangements and the management of associated risks. Facilitate identification
of workplaces to support learner placements. Report on the completion rate of
projects and submitting report to funding agencies. develop and manage a
credible database of bursary beneficiaries, internships, learnerships and
apprenticeships in the province. Track and monitor progress of bursary
beneficiaries, internships, learnerships and apprenticeships. Manage the
allocated resources of the sub- directorate in line with legislative and
departmental policy directives and comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/154 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: OTP 07/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with NQF 6/7 (Diploma / Degree) as recognized by
SAQA in Social Science / Public Administration/Management or any related
field. Minimum of 3 to 5 years’ appropriate administrative experience as an
Assistant Director. A valid driver’s license. Skills required: Language skills &
the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds, Good telephone etiquette, Computer literacy, sound
organizational skills, High level reliability, written communication skills.
Knowledge of the relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures. Basic
knowledge of financial administration. Experience in supporting Executive
Leadership will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of secretarial services to Provincial Management:
Review draft Agenda for each meeting. Ensure that Cabinet documents to be
considered by Provincial Management are received, processed and distributed
in a timely and secure manner. Attend and support Assistant Director in the
Provincial Management meetings. Ensure that the memoranda being
submitted by Departments complies with the Cabinet Handbook guidelines.
Review meeting minutes and make necessary corrective amendments. Ensure
111
timeous distribution of action list of decisions taken at the meeting to all relevant
parties. Ensure safekeeping of Provincial Management. Manage the provision
of secretarial services to the Social Protection Community and Human
Development Cabinet Committee. Coordinate meeting invitations to Members.
Review the meeting agenda. Receive memoranda and compile meeting
document pack. Ensure timeous delivery of meeting packs to members.
Compile minutes of the meetings. Review and submit Cabinet Committee
Memo to EXCO. Coordination the verification and update of exco files and
documents: Ensure the resolutions and original documents of the Executive
Council are filed in a secure and chronological manner. Oversee the
development of a database of Executive Council resolutions and minutes.
Extract resolutions after the Executive Council meeting and securely
communicate the same to Provincial Departments. Manage the allocated
resources of the unit in line with legislative and departmental policy directives
and comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: e-recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/155 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC RELATIONS AND EVENTS REF NO: OTP
08/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS National Senior Certificate, An NQF level 6/7 National Diploma/Degree as
recognized by SAQA in Events Management, Public Relations, Corporate
Communications, Marketing Management, Strategic Brand Communication,
Journalism. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience at an Assistant Director
level in the field of public relations / events management / communication
management. A valid driver’s license. Skills required: Budgeting and Financial
Management; Communication and Information Management; Citizen Focus
and Responsiveness; Diversity Management; Impact and Influence; Managing
Interpersonal Relations and Resolving Problems; Networking; Planning and
Organizing; Project Management. Excellent presentation skills. Attention to
detail. Excellent Communication skills (written/ verbal). Strategic thinker and
problem solver. Excellent computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, web
and email packages). Ability to travel across the province and work long hours.
DUTIES : Events Management: Develop best practice strategies and plans for
Departmental and Provincial Government events; Develop procurement plans
for the logistical needs for events; Plan, develop and ensure the maintenance
of an Events Calendar for the Department, Provide strategic events advisory
support to the Department including conceptualization of events to improve
brand interface with stakeholders; Engage with internal and external
stakeholders to determine the needs for the events; Manage guidelines and
logistical arrangements for the events (venue, equipment, etc.); Manage a
database of events venues in the Eastern Cape; Liaise with relevant
programmes to coordinate agreements with suppliers, contractors and clients
with regard to events; Monitor and evaluate the outcomes of events; Liaise with
relevant programmes to monitor expenditure for the events and draft
expenditure report. Public Relations Management: Contributes to the
development and implementation of overall communication strategies,
ensuring alignment with organizational goals. Creates and curates content for
various communication channels, including websites, social media, and other
products. Analyze media coverage and public perception reports and identify
communication opportunities. Build and regularly maintain positive
relationships with internal and external stakeholders to sustain good public
relations image of the Department government and the Premier. Assist in
planning, implementing and coordinating communication projects and other
related events. Assist with drafting and implementing communication plans for
various communication projects. Monitor and evaluate Public Relations
campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836. For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
112
POST 17/156 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: KNOWLEDGE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: OTP 09/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF level 6/7 (Degree/National Diploma)
recognized by SAQA in Records Management/Information Science/Archives
Studies/ Library and Information Science or Studies. Minimum of three (3)
years’ experience at an Assistant Director level in Knowledge and Records
Management environment. A valid driver’s license. Positive attitude towards
learning and development, demonstrated by a record of continuing
professional development. Self-motivated, able to work as a team and
independently. Ability to work under pressure and manage priorities
appropriately. Security consciousness. Able to plan and implement culture
change. High level of interpersonal skills including the ability to lead, influence
and motivate staff at all levels. Competencies and capabilities: Disposal
Indexing skills. Consulting skills such as stakeholders’ information and
consensus building. Strong collaborative skills. Content analytical skills. Ability
to consult and elicit agreement. Information stewardship skills. Archiving skills.
Information analytics skills. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant
Public Service legislation such as (National Archives and Records Service Act,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, Electronic Communication and
Transaction Act and Protection of Personal Information Act). Knowledge of
Enterprise Content Management Solutions/Electronic Document and Records
Management Systems and Information retrieval software applications.
Knowledge of international and national records keeping standards and
practices such as: ISO 23081 Information and documentation-Records
Management processes ISO 15489- 1 information and Documentation
Records Management. Sound knowledge of contemporary electronic
documents and record management practices. Knowledge of project
management approaches, tools, and phases of the project lifecycle
development and delivery of content management programme. Demonstrate
knowledge of current issues in information management in content
management setting Interface between Promotion of Access to Information
and Protection of Personal Information and Data Protection. Broad awareness
of corporate and records management issues.
DUTIES : Implement Records Management Strategies and Policies. Design and develop
automated filing systems, classification schemes and undertake records
surveys. Consult business areas with the intention to look at correspondence
system utilized. Give advice on new records management policies to the
department for the maintenance of the Filing system. Oversee the
management of electronic and paper-based information. Identify the most
appropriate records management resources. Implement Records Disposal
Programmes. Evaluate the importance and envisaged duration of life of all
records per file plan. Apply for disposal authority. Manage and coordinate the
Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) and Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). Manage administration support and give input in the
development of business, operational and procurement plans. Compile and
submit monthly and quarterly reports. Manage financial and human
resources/staff. Maintain staff discipline. Attend and respond to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 76 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha at
060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472 9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/157 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RAPID RESPONSE AND PRIORITY PROGRAMMES
REF NO: OTP 10/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF level 6/7 degree (Diploma /B/Tech/
Degree) as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration/Management, Social
Sciences. Public Relations: Minimum of 3 - 5 years’ experience in public sector
at assistant management level in areas of Stakeholder Relations/Management.
A valid driver’s license. Programme Coordination and knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies, and prescripts that govern the public sector, constitution of
the Republic of South Africa, Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act. Key
Competencies: Communication and Information Management; Problem
113
solving, conflict management, decision making; Networking and Building
Bonds; Planning and Organising; Impact and influence; Coordination and
Facilitation.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate development and implementation of the annual
programe of action for the Moral Regeneration. Coordinate the planning and
execution of activities aimed at promoting moral values, ethical behavior, and
social cohesion in communities; Work closely with government departments,
civil society, religious groups, and community leaders to ensure that the Moral
Regeneration’s objectives are reflected in the Programme of Action and that
its initiatives are implemented effectively; Ensure ethical conduct is enforced
and moral regeneration across diverse social and cultural groups; Coordinate
and implement a comprehensive system to monitor and verify the effectiveness
and integrity of Moral Regeneration activities, Create a framework to ensure
accountability and generate reports on the progress of initiatives that promote
ethical values, social cohesion, and moral regeneration. Facilitate the
implementation of Military Veteran’s government support plan. Develop
policies that address critical areas such as healthcare access, mental health
support, job training, housing assistance, and social reintegration; Overseeing
the planning, coordination, and execution of various support services for
military veterans; Manage stakeholder relationships, monitoring service
delivery, and ensuring the smooth operation of the support plan to improve the
quality of life for veterans; Ensure collaboration among stakeholders and
veteran organizations. Ensure proper resource allocation, and alignment with
veterans’ needs. Coordinate implementation and consolidate reports of the
provincial development agenda on the ex-mine worker’s programme. Oversee
and coordinate relevant provincial and national government departments,
State Owned Entities, Industry stakeholders, and ex-mine workers to ensure
effective delivery of services such as healthcare, skills development, social
support, compensation of occupational health, Unemployment Insurance
Fund, Injuries at work and Provident Funds. Coordinate provincial steering
committee meetings for annual planning, monitoring of implementation and
review of progress. Coordinate emerging intervention as required. Provide
secretariat services to the steering committee. Keep records and files of the
content material essential to intervention process. Develop monthly, quarterly
and annual progress reports for the programme. Facilitate the development of
the ex-mine workers intervention programme communication plan and its
implementation. Coordinate multi sectoral stakeholders and services to ensure
that benefits and compensations of all ex-mine workers in the province.
Facilitate integration, centralization and verification of a provincial database
from Government, Non- Governmental and private sector stakeholders. Profile
and mobilize potential multi-sectoral stakeholders provincially, nationally and
internationally, capable of contributing towards achieving the goals of the
programme. Facilitate mobilization of resources for the planned interventions.
Coordinate support from the three spheres of government, non-governmental
and private sector stakeholders for the implementation of services on
wheels/outreach activities in the province. Consolidate and prepare reports
and presentations for the attention of decision-making structures in the
province. Coordinate implementation of socio-economic activities targeting ex-
mine workers and their beneficiaries. In area of responsibility, manage the
allocated resources of the directorate in line with legislative and departmental
policy directives and comply with corporate governance and planning
imperatives. Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section
produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve
problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from manager.
Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential, provide the necessary
guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and development
opportunities. Ensure timeously development of job descriptions and
implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
subordinates. Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management,
maintenance, and safekeeping of assets. Ensure the implementation and
management of risk, finance and supply chain management protocols and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
114
POST 17/158 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OD & CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: OTP
11/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 (National Diploma/B-.Degree) as
recognized by SAQA in Industrial Engineering / Industrial Psychology / Public
Administration/Management / Human Resource Management. Minimum three
(3) years’ experience at an AD in Change & Organizational Development
environment. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge of evolving OD principles and
techniques Change Management, Batho Pele principles, Project management
procedures, In-depth knowledge of legislative framework that governs the
Public Service.
DUTIES : Provide services to diagnose and evaluate institutional effectiveness: Conduct
diagnostics aimed at evaluating constitutional effectiveness and performance
issues in partnership with client departments and implement appropriate
interventions. Provide technical hands-on support to provincial departments.
Evaluate institutional effectiveness and performance issues in partnership with
client departments. Implement appropriate interventions to optimize process
efficiencies. Support the development of service delivery models and
organizational structures of provincial departments: Provide technical and
advisory support on service delivery model. Provide technical and advisory
support on organizational re-structuring and re-engineering. Conduct validation
of organizational structures and service delivery model with compliance of
applicable legislation. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual report on the
status of restructuring within the province. Provide support in the development,
review and implementation of Provincial OD policy. Develop and maintain a
provincial database of organizational structures and job evaluation. Facilitate
capacity building of OD Practitioners in the province. Facilitate and coordinate
change management programmes. Facilitate the implementation of the
provincial department’s change management plan. Drive the transformation
agenda and do regular checks. Coordinate job evaluation services in the
province: Provide support in the development, review and implementation of
job evaluation policy. Develop and monitor the implementation of JE procedure
manual. Monitor the effective functioning of departmental JE structures.
Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports on the status of JE in the
province. Coordinate the development of job description in line with the
applicable norms. Facilitate capacity building of OD Practitioners in the
province. Ensure the functionality and effectiveness of the provincial OD
Forum. Provide advice, guidance and technical hands-on support to provincial
departments on job evaluation, where required or requested. Promote and
facilitate the implementation of Batho Pele programmes: Facilitate and
coordinate Batho Pele and Culture Change provincial forums. Conduct audits
for Batho Pele processes and surveys and submits relevant reports to national
departments. (3-yearly). Facilitate the Implementation of the Batho Pele
Revitalization Strategy. Manage the allocated resources of the sub-directorate
in line with legislative and departmental policy directives and comply with
corporate governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/159 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: OTP
12/05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with NQF Level 6/7 (Diploma/B-Degree) as
recognized by SAQA in Human Resource Development/ Public
Administration/Management Developmental Studies, Training and
Development, Education. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience at Assistant
Director level within the skills development environment. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge required Advanced knowledge and understanding of the
Skills Development Act and related legislations, Research experience related
to skills development is necessary, Team leadership, Budgeting and Financial
115
Management; Communication and Information Management; Citizen Focus
and Responsiveness; Diversity Management; Impact and Influence; Managing
Interpersonal Relations and Resolving Problems; Networking; Planning and
Organizing; Project Management. Excellent presentation skills. Attention to
detail. Excellent Communication skills (written/ verbal). Strategic thinker and
problem solver. Excellent computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, web
and email packages). Ability to travel across the province and work long hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate development and implementation of a Provincial HRD Strategy:
Support development of provincial HRD strategy through liaison with provincial
departments. Develop a provincial framework and guidelines for the
development and alignment of workplace skills plan. Coordinate consultative
processes for the development of WSP’s in provincial departments. Facilitate
and coordinate appointment and registration of skills development facilitators
with PSETA and other relevant SETAs. Ensure and supervise alignment of
SSP’s of SETAs with the WSP planning process. Support and contribute to the
implementation of a provincial HRD strategy: Work collaboratively with all the
SETAs in support of implementing a provincial HRD strategy. Develop a
provincial women database for leadership and management capacity
development series. Organize and prioritize sessions for women leadership
and management development. Support all other initiatives/strategies geared
towards preparing women into fill in Leadership and management positions in
the public sector. Facilitate hosting of provincial/national/international women
awards ceremonies. Facilitate identification of coaches and mentors for
leadership and management capacity development programme. Support
implementation process of a provincial coaching and mentoring programme.
Render administrative support services to the implementation of the HRD
strategy: Develop memoranda and invitation letters for HRD sessions Compile
the required HRD reports/ plans. Manage the allocated resources of the
directorate in line with legislative and departmental policy directives and
comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/160 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: PROV. LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: OTP
13/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with NQF Level 6/7 (National Diploma/Degree) as
recognised by SAQA in Linguistics, Languages (English and Xhosa),
Language practice, Editing and Translation, Communication and or
Journalism. 3 years’ experience in editing and translation in English and Xhosa
and relevant experience in the similar environment at salary level 7/8. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge of editing, linguistics, current social, developmental
and economic affairs. Ability to translate to Sesotho or Afrikaans and
understanding of the language legislative framework and multilingual context
of the country will be an added advantage. Competencies and capabilities:
Knowledge of MS Office Suite and English grammar and vocabulary and its
application. Good communication, research, numerical and statistical language
editing, good writing skills. Ability to work faster and accurately, think more
broadly. Ability to sort out work related priorities, willingness to travel and work
long hours to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide inputs on the units’ procedure, standards and plans, processes and
guidelines. Responsible for ensuring the provision of translation, editing,
proofreading and interpreting services: Provide input into policy and
procedures regarding provincial language service; Implement the necessary
policy and procedures regarding provincial language service. Render language
advisory services, Provide inputs and promote usage of the style guide
according to latest language practices. Translate Bills and other legal
documents , and translate general documents in the official languages while
maintaining legal meaning and intent; edit documents to ensure consistency,
grammatical accuracy, and compliance with legal terminology and standards;
render provincial interpreting services; liaise with freelance language
practitioners; quality check all documents and products produced by the unit,
including work of freelance practitioners; develop and record terminology;
116
compile and maintain database relating to language services rendered;
perform administrative tasks e.g. Record keeping; develop processes and
procedures related to the core function, including quality assurance. Maintain
the Gazette Office / Library, filing gazettes, searching for Gazettes as and when
required. Financial administration. Ensure that procurement prescripts are
applied regarding the language services function; Align expenditure to the cash
flow. Human Resources management: Monitor workflow of the unit; Supervise,
direct and support staff, where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/161 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED STRATEGY & PLANNING
(SOCIAL PROTECTION, COMMUNITY & HUMAN DEV. CLUSTER) REF
NO: OTP14/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF Level 6/7- National Diploma or Degree as
recognized by SAQA, in Public Administration/ Development Studies/ Social
Science. At least 3 years’ experience in strategic planning or a similar
environment at salary level 7/8. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public
Service, Government planning, knowledge of planning framework and
government planning cycle (long-term, medium-term and short-term planning)
Understanding of modern systems of governance and administration. Excellent
communication, analytical, report writing, and coordination and consolidation
skills. Teamwork orientation. Good inter and intrapersonal skills. Computer
literacy, with good knowledge of MS Office.
DUTIES : Support the Social Protection, Community & Human Development (SPCHD)
cluster departments with the coordination of development and implementation
of cluster plans. Support the process of developing the medium- and long-term
provincial and sectoral plans and monitor the implementation process. Support
the review of the Provincial Medium Term Strategic Framework and the
Programme of Action informed by Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
Africa Agenda 2063, National Development Plan (NDP), Medium Term
Strategic Framework (MTSF), Mandate Paper, Provincial Development Plan
(PDP), Provincial Medium Term Strategic Framework (P-MTSF), District
Development Plans and Integrated Development Plan (IDPs) reviews. Ensure
alignment of sectoral strategic plans, policies, and service delivery programs
in the provincial departments. Support the development of Provincial short-
term Strategic goals. Support the departments in the development of short-
term provincial strategic and sectoral plans, i.e., 5-year Strategic Plans and
Annual Performance Plans (APPs), to ensure alignment to provincial priorities
and conformance to planning frameworks. Provide support in the analysis of
the draft APPs of the provincial departments in line with the DPME planning
framework. Provide support on the analysis of the municipal IDPs and DDM
One Plans. Support the coordination of planning activities to ensure coherence
between sectoral strategic plans, policies, and sectoral service delivery
programmes across the province through the cluster system. Coordinate an
internal engagement process with different stakeholders on the planning
process and outputs to ensure alignment and maximize buy-in into the
provincial plans.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/162 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS REF NO:
OTP15/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF level 6/7 qualification (National
Diploma/Degree) as recognised by SAQA in Social Sciences/Public
Administration. Minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience in
117
Intergovernmental Relations, policy Development and Co-ordination of
Programmes at salary level 7/8. A valid driver’s license. Relevant legislation,
policies and prescripts in cooperative governance, Policy analysis and
development, and stakeholder relations and administrative Knowledge. Skills
in Research, Administration, Problem Solving, Communication, Facilitation and
Knowledge of Intergovernmental relations, planning cycles within government
political dynamics and awareness, proficiency in Microsoft, good presentation
& negotiating skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of strategies and policies to manage
Intergovernmental relations: Assisting in the facilitating the revisions and
Implementation of Provincial Intergovernmental Relations Strategy, Policies
and Programmes. Assisting in facilitating the Implementation of
intergovernmental Relations policies, standards and guidelines. Facilitate
implementation of strategies related to the Sub Directorate in relation to
District, Metropolitan and Local IGR coordination. Assisting in coordination of
meetings, agenda and other logistics in support of Premier’s coordinating
Forum (TPCF and PCF). Provide support in promotion of intergovernmental
cooperation through IGR protocols to maximize linkage between all IGR
Platforms (PCF, MUNIMEC, DMAFO, Local IGR forum and Ward based
Structures). Provide support in Coordination of inter-sphere and inter-sectoral
intergovernmental cooperation to enhance Integrated Planning and Services
delivery. Coordinate and provide support to IGR structures: Assisting and
facilitating submission of service delivery reports to enable oversight. Provide
support in Coordination of regular monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the
Provincial IGR agenda Escalations from MUNMEC and Local IGR Fora.
Maintain and review the IGR structures database and participation with the
province. Assist in Provision of required administrative support on all IGR
Provincial platforms. Provide support in facilitating initiative to IGR practitioners
for specific IGR structures (sector departments and municipalities at all levels)
to support war room functionality in all spheres of government. Provide support
to intergovernmental service delivery initiatives: Provide support in Facilitation
of the participation and contribution by national provincial departments and
state entities in local IDPs through effective ward-based planning integrated
service Delivery Model (ISDM). Assist in the coordination and organization of
EXCO outreach Programme in line with the revised Provincial IGR Strategy, to
evaluate and provide oversight to service delivery initiatives. Assist in
Coordinating District IGR Forum calendar band activities to ensure integrated
planning between provincial departments, districts and all local municipalities.
Managing area of responsibility: Render support to ensure the effective and
efficient running and management of intergovernmental Relations Sub
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/163 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM REF NO: OTP16/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF Level 6/ 7 qualification (National
Diploma/Degree) as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource Management /
Public Administration/Management or any related field. Minimum of 3 -5 years’
appropriate experience in the relevant field as Human Resource Practitioner at
salary level 7/8 in Performance Management Development System.
Knowledge of PERSAL with proven certificates. A valid driver’s license.
Relevant legislation, policies and prescripts governs PMDS, Policy analysis
and development, and stakeholder relations and administrative knowledge.
Skills in Problem Solving, Communication, Facilitation and planning cycles
within government, good presentation & negotiating skills and report writing
skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of PMDS policy: Confirm approved PMDS policy
and identify gaps. Facilitate research for development of PMDS Policy.
Compile and circulate policy for input. Facilitate meetings with stakeholders.
Facilitate training on PMDS and related functions Verify PMDS training and
development requirements. Facilitate the management of the PMDS database:
118
Verify the capturing of data on PERSAL. Facilitate the compilation of statistics
for submission. Confirm accurate database and systems for reporting.
Facilitate the implementation of PMDS performance incentive scheme:
Compile statistics per programme. Provide secretarial services to departmental
moderation committees. Render advice to committee members on PMDS
procedures. Facilitate payment of incentives. Verify timeous and accurate
processing of all PERSAL transactions (pay progressions etc). Verify, check
and approve transactions on PERSAL. Provide input on annual reports on
PMDS incentive schemes implemented. Manage areas of responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/164 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ETHICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: OTP17/05/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF Level 6/ 7 qualification (National
Diploma/Degree) as recognized by SAQA in risk management/Internal
Audit/Public Administration/Law. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
the Risk/Anti-Corruption/Ethics Management space. Certification as an Ethics
Officer is an added advantage. Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge of public
service anti-corruption strategy. Public Service Regulations, 2016, National
Anti-Corruption Hotline, Lifestyle Audit Framework. Technical knowledge in the
application of ethics management concepts and principles. Knowledge of Risk
Management and Ethics Risk Assessments, Knowledge and understanding of
the concepts of fraud and ethics management, standards and procedures.
Ability to analyse, compare and interpret information and make appropriate
recommendations. Methodical and logical when analysing information, public
service and provincial procedures and prescripts, investigative skills, computer
literacy, excellent written skills, inclusive of report writing, minute taking, and
verbal, excellent facilitation, presentation and conducting awareness sessions,
and communication skills. Good interpersonal relations skills, honesty, ability
to gather and analyse information, ability to develop and apply policies, ability
to work individually and in team creativity, ability to work under extreme
pressure, sense of responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Provide support in effective and efficient implementation of ethics governance
frameworks. Provide ethics risk management support. Provide support on
investigations and management of cases internally and externally. Provide
support in ensuring compliance, advisory, and facilitation of management of
ethics programme. Drafting reports, taking minutes, development of case
registers and data analysis.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/165 : VETTING INSPECTOR/ OFFICER REF NO: OTP18/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with an NQF Level 6/ 7 qualification (National
Diploma/B. Degree) in Social Sciences or any related field. Three (03) to five
(05) years’ experience in Security/ Vetting. Advanced knowledge of SVIS
system, Basic Vetting Course is compulsory. A valid driver’s license, and
analysis, conflict management, listening & interviewing skills and be Computer
literate.
DUTIES : Conduct quality, confidential, secret and Top-Secret investigations: Formulate
investigation objectives and action plans. Issue security clearance form (Z204)
to officials. Submit completed Z204 forms to SSA. Maintain the security
clearance database: Correct capturing of data on the system and system
update. Tend to the record keeping of the security clearance and vetting data
and ensure the effective safeguarding thereof. Communicate with stakeholders
(SAPS and SSA) regarding the integrity check of personnel. Creating
awareness on information security: Developing promotional material for
119
awareness programmes. Organisation of information and vetting workshops
Establish the integrity checking capacity: Liaise with HR management division
on the integrity or record check of employee. Identify employees who are
working in strategic areas and who are exposed to potential high risk of leakage
of information. Compile departmental vetting status report.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr. N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms. A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/166 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO CHIEF DIRECTOR: PCAS REF NO:
OTP19/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 qualification (National Diploma/B-
Degree) as recognized by the SAQA in Public Admin / Management/ Office
Management/ Secretarial Diploma qualification with 360 credits. Knowledge of
Microsoft Office suite literacy at intermediate level. Minimum of 1-2 years’
experience in a professional office environment. Experience in rendering a
support service to senior management will be an added advantage. A Driver’s
license will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Legislative
framework and relevant government procedures, Understanding of
government operations. Management of Virtual Meetings. Computer Skills,
Secretarial skills, administrative skills, Communication: verbal and written,
Interpersonal and Conflict resolution. Communication, Problem Analysis and
Solving, Financial Management, Programmes and Project Management,
Technical Skills, Reliability, Flexibility, Planning and Execution, Teamwork.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Directors office.
Receive telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls of the
Chief Director, discretion is required to decide whom the call should be
forwarded to. In the process the job incumbent should finalize some enquiries.
Perform advanced typing work. Operate and ensure that office equipment, e.g.,
fax machines and photocopiers are in good working order. Record the
engagements of the Chief Director. Utilize discretion to decide whether to
accept/decline or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on
the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinate with and
sensitize/advise the manager regarding engagements. Compile realistic
schedules of appointments and ensure effective diary management. Renders
administrative support services: Ensure the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the Chief Director. Establish and maintain
a document management and tracking system. Ensure the safekeeping of all
documentation in the office of the Chief Director in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Scrutinize routine submissions/ reports and make notes and/or
recommendations for the manager. Respond to enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders. Draft documents as required. File
documents for the manager and the unit where required. Collect, analyse and
collate information requested by the manager. Clarify instructions and notes on
behalf of the Chief Director. Ensure that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Prioritize issues in the office of the Chief Director. Manage the
leave register and telephone accounts for the unit. Develop compliance
management reports for the office of the Chief Director. Handle the
procurement of standard items like stationery, refreshments etc. for the
activities of the Chief Director and the unit. Obtain the necessary signatures on
documents like procurement advice and monthly salary reports. Establish and
maintain the Sub-programme task management and tracking register. Ensure
that all documents and submissions always timely reach the Chief Director and
Sub-Unit Managers. Provides support to Chief Director regarding meetings
Scrutinize documents to determine actions/information/other documents
required for meetings. Collect and compile all necessary documents for the
Chief Director to inform him/her of the contents. Record minutes/decisions and
communicate to relevant role players, follow-up on progress made. Prepare
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinate logistical arrangements
for meetings when required. Establish and maintain meeting resolutions
registers for the Programme. Supports the Chief Director with the
administration of the office budget. Collect and coordinate all the documents
that relate to the Chief Director’s Office budget. Keep record of expenditure
120
commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts manager of possible over- and
under spending. Check and correlate BAS reports to ensure that expenditure
is allocated correctly. Identify the need to move funds between items. Compare
the MTEF allocation with the requested budget and inform the Chief Director
of changes. Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly and remains up to date regarding the prescripts/policies
and procedures applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure efficient and
effective support to the manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and
processes that apply in the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/167 : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
OTP20/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with NQF 6/7 (National Diploma/Degree) as
recognized by SAQA in Human Resource Management / Public
Administration/Management or any related field. 1-2 years relevant experience
in Human Resource Development field. A suitable applicant must have an in-
depth knowledge of legislative framework that governs the Public Service.
Knowledge and application of legislative framework, polices that governs the
skills development. Knowledge of PERSAL with proven certificates.
DUTIES : Provide support with the facilitation of the implementation of skills development
legislation: Track the compliance of training programmes with relevant
legislations. Provide input with the compilation and development of WSP.
Organize the implementation of ABET and skills development programmes.
Organize training and development of employees: Provide support with the
coordination of training, development policies, and programmes. Provide
support with coordinating the implementation of induction and orientation
programmes. Provide support with coordinating the implementation of
monitoring of departmental HRD strategy. Maintain departmental training and
developmental databases. Provide input with the compilation of monthly,
quarter and annual training and development reports. Administer bursaries and
study assistance. Organize the implementation of learnerships and internship
programme. Provide support with coordinating the establishment and
implementation of learnership programmes. Provide support with coordinating
the implementation of learnership guidelines and curricula. Identify learnership
areas. Provide administrative support for mentorship programmes.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/168 : USER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN REF NO: OTP21/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 - National Diploma or Degree as
recognized by SAQA in IT industry, with 1-2 years’ experience in ICT End User
computing support and Service Desk operations. Advantageous Industry
certifications: Microsoft 365 Certified: Modern Desktop Administrator Associate
certification or other relevant Microsoft Technical Certifications. Microsoft
certifications are annually renewable with Microsoft for free, therefore only non-
expired Microsoft-accredited certifications will be considered. Knowledge and
Skills: Analytical/Critical thinking, Active Learning, Complex Problem solving,
Writing, Reading Comprehension, Active Listening, Time Management,
Monitoring. Creative Thinking, Problem Analysis, Technical Proficiency, Self-
Management, and Team Membership. Personal attributes: Excellence,
Integrity, Responsiveness, Inclusivity, Creativity & Innovation, and
Professionalism.
DUTIES : Install, configure, and support Windows client -Install Windows client, Manage
and use Hyper-V on Windows client, Configure Windows settings, Install and
121
configure optional features. Configure and manage connectivity and storage -
Configure networking and access, Configure and manage storage, Configure
OneDrive on Windows client, Troubleshoot client connectivity. Maintain and
support Windows - Perform system and data recovery, Manage Windows
updates, configure remote management, Monitor and manage Windows.
Protect devices and data - Manage users, groups, and computer objects,
Configure and manage local and group policies, Support security settings on
Windows client, Support Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) and password self-
service. Install, configure and support Windows client applications - M365
Applications, Collaboration & communication, Social and intranet, Files and
content, Work management.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/169 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: INTERNAL CONTROL UNIT REF NO:
OTP22/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 qualification (National
Diploma/Degree) in Commerce/Financial Management or Accounting or
Auditing with minimum of 2 years’ experience in Finance/Auditing/SCM. In-
depth knowledge of legislative framework that governs the Public Service
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Understanding of
Financial Management best practises. Knowledge of the Financial
Management Systems (PERSAL, BAS&LOGIS). Internal control procedures
and systems. Modified cash basis and SCOA, HR and SCM prescripts.
DUTIES : Render assistance in the establishment and implementation of governance
systems: assist in the development/renewal and implementation of
departmental internal control policies, procedures, and processes. Conduct
pre-audit on procurement processes, orders, and payment vouchers prior to
processing to obviate fraud and errors. Assist in the implementation of effective
financial management: internal control measures within the department:
perform pre-audit on the authenticity of payment vouchers. Analyse, review,
and correct internal controls. Safeguard assets including financial information.
Check compliance and completeness of S&T claims processed. Check
allocation codes on LOGIS after an order is generated. Check if all required
documents are attached in the payment’s vouchers and S&T claims are
accurate, valid, and correct. Follow up on auditor general and internal audit
recommendations: Assist in the development of the system description and
attend to audit queries. Assist in the development of audit intervention or action
plan based on Auditor General final management report by gathering POE.
Keep and maintain files of all the reports from Auditor General and Internal
Auditor recommendations with agreed action plans that are implemented.
Perform administrative duties for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at Tel No: 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo
Xesha at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060
472 9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/170 : ADMIN OFFICER: FACILITIES REF NO: OTP23/05/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 qualification (National
Diploma/Degree) in Office Administration/Business Administration/Building
Environment/ Equivalent qualification. 2-3 years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Competencies: Work experience as a Facilities administrator
or similar role. Strong knowledge of facilities management operations.
Familiarity with office equipment and security systems. Hands on experience
with facilities management. Understanding of safety regulations in offices.
Well-organized. Sound judgement and the ability to think quickly during
emergencies. Be Computer literate.
DUTIES : Arrange for regular maintenance of equipment and internal systems (e.g.
heating system, alarms, security cameras). Create the schedule for cleaning
122
and disinfecting the building. Assist in monitoring activities that happen outside
the building, such as proper waste disposal, landscaping, gardening and
recycling. Assist in fixing minor malfunctions in office and security equipment.
Assist in coordination of office and parking space allocation. Keep track of
regular and ad-hoc facility and security expenses. Maintain an updated record
of invoices from external partners (e.g. suppliers, insurance agents, security
guards). Assist in researching new services and appliances to facilitate
operations. Assist in ensuring compliance with health and safety regulations.
Assist in scheduling directorate meetings, minutes and records management.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/171 : REGISTRY CLERK: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT TO THE PREMIER REF NO:
OTP24/05/2024
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate with no work experience, Experience in Records
Management/Tertiary education will be an added advantage. Basic knowledge
of administrative processes. Good communication (verbal and written) and
report writing skills. Computer literacy. Computer Certificate will be an added
advantage. Basic knowledge of administrative processes. Good
communication (verbal and written) and report writing skills. Computer literacy.
Computer Certificate will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of provincial Archives Act.
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principle. Practical knowledge of disposal records.
DUTIES : Provide registry services. Attend to clients. Handle telephone and other
enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files. Handle
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort, register and
dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing
and record management service. Opening and closing files according to
record. Classification system. Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to registry function. Open and Maintain Franking
Register. Frank post, record money, and update register daily. Undertake spot
checks on post to ensure no private post is included. Lock post in post bags
for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open and maintain admittance
register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the remittance register.
Hand Deliver and sign remittances to Finance. Send wrong remittances back
to sender via registered post and record reference number in register. Keep
daily record of number of letters franked. Process documents for archiving and/
disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and package files for archives and
distribution. Compile list of documents to be archived and submit to the
supervisor. Keep records for archived documents. Conducting and inspection
of all HR correspondence, Verification of folio numbers. Auditing of check list
on personal files and leave files. Indexing of documents. Monitoring
compliance with auditor Generals check list and Verification of indexing and
files.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/172 : MESSENGER / DRIVER: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT TO THE PREMIER REF
NO: OTP25/05/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: NQF level 3 (Grade 11 certificate or equivalent). Driver’s license
Code B/EB. Messenger operating experience will be an added advantage.
Ability to transport employees, goods/parcels and work under pressure
including overtime/weekends and public holidays. Physically fit and able to lift
and load goods/parcels.
123
DUTIES : Render messenger services to the executive support of the Premier: Deliver
and collect mail from the post office. Deliver and collect documents / parcels to
the various directorates in the departments and other provincial departments.
Conduct scaling of parcels and mail. Label and track all documents for
couriering documents and parcels. Provide transportation duties to The
Executive Support to The Premier: Render transport services to departmental
officials. Check and prepare vehicles for field trips. Complete logbook before
and after the trip. Load and dispatch items. Perform vehicle maintenance
checks: Check vehicles status and inform supervisor when work needs to be
carried out within and without an approved trip. Ensure vehicles are always in
good operating condition. Report to supervisor when vehicles are due for
service or had any mechanical faults. Report major defects. Ensure routine
maintenance of vehicles. Provide general office support: Render a general
support function in the Executive Support to the Premier. Assist with document
reproduction and facsimile services. Record keeping of the utilization of the
allocated motor vehicle e.g. log sheets and petrol receipts. Maintain knowledge
on the policies and procedures that apply in the work environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms. Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/173 : MESSENGER / DRIVER: KNOWLEDGE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: OTP26/05/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: NQF level 3 (Grade 11 certificate or equivalent). Driver’s license
Code B/EB. Three (3) years driving. Messenger operating experience will be
an added advantage. Ability to transport employees, goods/parcels and work
under pressure including overtime/weekends and public holidays. Physically fit
and able to lift and load goods/parcels.
DUTIES : Render messenger services to the department: Deliver and collect mail from
the post office. Deliver and collect documents / parcels to the various
directorates in the departments and other provincial departments. Conduct
scaling of parcels and mail. Label and track all documents for couriering
documents and parcels. Provide transportation duties to the department:
Render transport services to departmental officials. Check and prepare
vehicles for field trips. Complete logbook before and after the trip. Load and
dispatch items. Perform vehicle maintenance checks: Check vehicles status
and inform supervisor when work needs to be carried out within and without an
approved trip. Ensure vehicles are always in good operating condition. Report
to supervisor when vehicles are due for service or had any mechanical faults.
Report major defects. Ensure routine maintenance of vehicles. Provide general
office support: Render a general support function in the Executive Support to
the Premier. Assist with document reproduction and facsimile services. Record
keeping of the utilization of the allocated motor vehicle e.g. log sheets and
petrol receipts. Maintain knowledge on the policies and procedures that apply
in the work environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at Tel No: 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo
Xesha at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060
472 9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 17/174 : DATA CAPTURERS: ISIQALO YOUTH FUND REF NO: OTP27/05/2025 (X2
POSTS)
(Fixed term contract of 12 months)
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04), annual salary plus 37% in lieu of
service benefits)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 with no experience in office
administration, secretariat and experience in data capturing will be an added
advantage. Competence: A good understanding of appropriate computerized
systems and packages; a basic knowledge of spreadsheets and Databases.
Proven computer literacy (MS Office). Skills: Interpersonal; Communication
skills (Verbal & Written); Numeracy & Literacy.
124
DUTIES : Preparation, compilation, sorting, capturing and management of data of
beneficiary information in Isiqalo youth fund and other related youth
development programmes. Verifying all necessary documents attached to the
application form; collecting and receiving application forms for evaluation;
checking the accuracy of data submitted by applicants and providing guidance
where necessary; liaise with applicants on any information pertaining to the
application; controlling and capturing of beneficiary information capturing of
data from various source documents into the computer system for storage,
processing and management purposes. Manage the procurement process of
IYF awardees including the entire procurement value chain; Perform
equipment delivery to the awarded beneficiaries; Maintain Isiqalo YF
consolidated dashboard. Serve as a secretariat for Financial Support initiatives
within the unit. Capture and store data from available records in the required
formats e.g., databases, table, spreadsheets, log sheets, etc.; review and
validate all data from the records; submit data of all applications received; keep
and maintain records and files: Establish relevant databases, e.g. beneficiaries
of Isiqalo Youth Fund, SMME Development Programmes, unemployed youth,
etc. Make regular backups of databases and information on youth development
in the province. Update registers and statistics. Ensure records and files are
properly sorted and secured; Provide information to components when
needed. Provide any other office duties; process and consolidate information/
complaints or any specific reports related to data collected.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha
at 060 584 4059/ Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472
9836.
For eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must strictly apply using only the provincial eRecruitment system
which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za, or https://www.ecprov.gov.za or
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/. The system is available 24/7 and closes at
23:59 on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding
the system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile email address, details of the issue to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only
– NO CVs). Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Fri). Should you submit your applications/ CV
to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za and not as specified, your
application will be regarded as lost and not be considered. Refer all application
related enquiries to the specified contact person.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms T. Nkonyile
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025. No late/ Faxed/ Posted, Hand-delivered, and e-Mailed
applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply.for SMS (senior
management service) posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
125
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve 12/24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/175 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
PT 01/05/2025
Purpose: To enhance the planning and monitoring of infrastructure
performance of provincial departments and public entities
SALARY : R1 436 022 - R1716 933.per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three-year Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Accounting /
Economics / Built Environment coupled with 5 years of experience at Senior
Management level (Level 13 or higher) in Financial Management / Business /
Built Environment with an emphasis in Public Sector Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement. Applicants should have obtained pre-entry Nyukela Certificate
(certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service from the National
School of Government). Skills and Competencies: In-depth knowledge of
legislation that governs the Public Service, Knowledge and application of
legislative framework that governs financial management in the Public Service,
Contract Management incl. Construction Procurement, Financial Modelling
(Analysis of Economic viability, Knowledge and application of PFMA, Risk
Management Policies and Practices. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Programme and Project Management. Budget and Financial Management.
Change Management, Knowledge Management, Information Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis, People
Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication (verbal & written), Computer Literacy – must have advanced
Excel.
DUTIES : Enhance The Planning and Budgeting Planning Process of Infrastructure
Delivery by Provincial Departments and Public Entities: Integrated Portfolio
Management Plans; Oversee alignment in Provincial Infrastructure Planning
across sectors and spheres of Government; Ensure IDMS is provincialised and
institutionalised in all Provincial Departments and that there is compliance with
the IDMS project management gateway system. Oversee the development of
and monitor the implementation of the provincial infrastructure framework.
Enforce a transparent, effective and efficient Construction Procurement
System in the Province which considers the development of local suppliers.
Ensure that the IDM Risk Management System is implemented; Mediate to
ensure that unresolved disputes are addressed. Ensure that capacitation
strategies are developed and implemented, based on monitoring findings.
Validate alignment of Provincial Infrastructure Plans with the National and
Integrated Development Plans of Municipalities in line with the District
Development Model and Provincial Budgeting process. Enhance The
126
Monitoring of Infrastructure Budget and Expenditure Performance by Provincial
Departments and Public Entities: Infrastructure Budget and Expenditure
Performance Report. Validate infrastructure committed budget proposals in
terms of norms and standards, priorities, affordability, provincial goals, life
cycle costing and maintenance plans and make recommendations thereafter.
Ensure that infrastructure projects are managed efficiently effectively,
economically and equitably. Ensure that the Implementing Agents comply with
the PFMA, IDMS, DORA and PIDF requirements. Ensure the submission of
regular consolidated reports to all relevant stakeholders on progress made with
infrastructure planning, spending and implementation of infrastructure projects.
Facilitate that the provincial infrastructure capacitation challenges are resolved
(including resourcing and training). Manage Spending for Infrastructure
Projects of Provincial Departments in terms of value for Money Considerations:
Number of Infrastructure facilities delivered within time, cost and quality
(Infrastructure Reporting Model). Ensure that there is alignment to norms and
standards in terms of infrastructure delivery. Ensure that the infrastructure site
visits take place to investigate elements of value for money, where payments
are compared against physical progress made with infrastructure project
implementation, strategic brief information and submit reports. Ensure that
research is undertaken on best practices regarding the implementation and
monitoring of infrastructure performance so as to determine new methods to
improve infrastructure delivery. Manage Area Of Responsibility: Maintain high
standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms
of quality / quantity and timelines. Resolve problems of motivation and control
with minimum guidance from managers. Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure Annual
Performance Plan and Strategy is developed and implemented to realise the
objectives of the organisation / Transversal Audit Risk and Forensic Services.
Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates
developed and implemented timeously. Manage employee performance daily
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensures that
assets are managed, maintained and kept safely. Ensure that vacancies are
filled timeously and that the Recruitment, Selection and Placement of staff is
according to laid down policy and procedure. Ensure The Implementation and
Management of Risk, Finance and Supply-Chain Management Protocols and
Prescripts in Area of Responsibility: Identify and manage risks in area of
responsibility. Ensure timely budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis and
reporting. Ensure that Procurement Planning takes place, that specifications
are developed timeously and that there is compliance with supply chain
prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s assets are managed, maintained and kept safely.
Weigh.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured Female / African Male
POST 17/176 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE SCM MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT
02/05/2025
Purpose: To enhance the Procurement Planning, PPP projects, Contract and
Physical Asset Management of infrastructure delivery of Provincial
Departments and Public Entities
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in the Built Environment
coupled with 5 years of experience at Senior Management level (Level 13 or
higher) with an emphasis in Public Sector Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement environment. Professional Registration with the relevant body is
also required. Applicants should have obtained the pre-entry Nyukela
Certificate (certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service from the
National School of Government prior to appointment). Skills And
Competencies: In-depth knowledge of legislation that governs the Public
Service. Knowledge and application of legislative framework. that governs
financial management in the Public Service, Extensive knowledge and
understanding of public service policies and procedures, Working knowledge
127
of the functioning of National / Provincial as well as Local Government.
Contract Management incl. Construction Procurement. Financial Modelling
(Analysis of Economic viability. Knowledge and application of PFMA. Risk
Management Policies and Practices. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Project and Programme Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Information Management, Service
Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and
Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication
(verbal & written). Computer Literacy – must have advanced Excel.
DUTIES : Ensure To Institutionalize Infrastructure Procurement Planning, Policy, Norms
and Standards: Ensure infrastructure procurement plans and B5 budgets are
credible. Provide advice / inputs regarding the review of infrastructure
procurement processes during different procurement stages. Ensure the
development of procurement strategies focusing on the promotion of effective
and efficient implementation of infrastructure projects and standards. Monitor,
evaluate and report on infrastructure procurement and major capital projects.
Ensure implementation of FIPDM are compliant with the CIDB standard for
uniformity, LEDPF, SMME development, and contraction procurement
strategies. Ensure The Establishment of Infrastructure Contract Management
Mechanisms and Enforce Transparency and Effective Management of
Movable and Immovable Assets in the Department: Enhance and monitor
implementation and institutionalisation of contract management. Promote
contract management and strategic procurement management. Promote
contract awarding compliance. Ensure development of movable and
immovable asset management policies, norms and standards is maintained.
Ensure Provincial Department are capacitated on Asset Management.
Oversee The Identification and Assessment of Potential Ppp Infrastructure
Projects: Guide the conducting of studies / research and benchmarking of
service delivery with other institutions within the public and private sector.
Promote and guide the development of preliminary evaluations of the models
to identify the most suitable model for the Government. Design and oversee
the delivery of a PPP marketing strategy, branding, market, targeting,
materials, development and distribution. Compile business cases including the
processes involved in the appointment and management of transactional
advisors. Negotiate PPP’s agreements. Oversee The Implementation Of Ppp
Infrastructure Projects: Guide stakeholders in the development of shareholder
compacts. Guide and lead research on the performance of the PPP and
identification of areas for bottlenecks or improvement. Manage the
development of appropriate restructuring model of non-core functions for
implementation. Direct and support the development, implementation and
monitoring of plans for proposed restructuring models. Develop Terms of
Reference (ToR) and manage project plans as per contractual agreements of
Service Level Agreements (SLA). Obtain appropriate mandates and approvals.
Manage And Oversee the Restructuring Projects and Feasibility Studies for
Non-Core Functional Services: Ensure the provision of assistance with project
inceptions register. Evaluate capacity at institutions. Guide and support the
development of procurement documents and PPP’s agreements. Assess
value-for-money criterion. Manage technical assistance including all
stakeholders. Provide support to Departments and municipalities regarding
implementation of contract management. Compliance With Relevant
Regulations Governing PPP’s: Provide administrative assistance to all
Treasury approvals, review and recommendations. Ensure compliance to
MFMA, MSA and PFMA (TR16) regarding provision of reviews,
recommendations and approvals. Monitor compliance with SLA / contractual
agreements. Manage Area Of Responsibility: Maintain high standards by
ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality /
quantity and timelines. Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from managers. Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure Annual
Performance Plan and Strategy is developed and implemented to realise the
objectives of the organisation / Transversal Audit Risk and Forensic Services.
Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates
developed and implemented timeously. Manage employee performance daily
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensures that
assets are managed, maintained and kept safely. Ensure that vacancies are
filled timeously and that the Recruitment, Selection and Placement of staff is
128
according to laid down policy and procedure. Ensure The Implementation and
Management of risk, finance and Supply-Chain Management Protocols and
Prescripts in area of Responsibility: Identify and manage risks in area of
responsibility. Ensure timely budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis and
reporting. Ensure that Procurement Planning takes place, that specifications
are developed timeously and that there is compliance with supply chain
prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s assets are managed, maintained and kept safely.
Weigh up financial implications of propositions and align expenditure to cash
flow projections.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured Female / African Male
POST 17/177 : DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC FINANCE
(EDUCATION, SPORT & SAFETY REF NO: PT 03/05/2025
Purpose: To promote optimal Financial Resource Allocation in the Education
sector and other departments, Monitor and report on the financial and non-
financial performance, oversee the analysis and monitor the implementation of
strategic objectives and targets in the department’s Annual Performance Plan.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management / Public Finance /
Economics coupled with 5 years’ experience at middle or senior management
level in Finance environment. Applicants should have obtained pre-entry
Nyukela Certificate (certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service
from the National School of Government submitted prior to appointment). Skills
And Competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative framework that
governs the Public Service. Understanding of Project Management principles,
financial acumen with experience in budget and resource management,
Strategic Oversight and collaboration, Leadership & Team Management, Risk
and Compliance, Stakeholder Engagement, innovation and Continuous
Improvement, Time management, Change Management, Communication and
negotiation skills. Conflict Resolution, Decision Making, Presentation &
Reporting skills, Advanced MS Project, Excel, Power BI (or similar reporting
tools). Risk Management policies and practices, Asset Management policies
and practices.
DUTIES : Manage the timely tabling of a Credible Main Budget Within Legislated
Timeframes: Ensure that budget circulars are compiled detailing the
requirements of departments and their entities on budget submissions. Co-
ordinate and ensure that an analysis is undertaken on departmental budgeting
and expenditure through budget achievability and expenditure reviews. Ensure
that a close-out report is prepared on the previous year’s financial and non-
financial information to inform the process of improving provincial resource
management. Co-ordinate and ensure that reports are compiled for the
provincial Medium Term Expenditure Committee hearings by utilising the first
budget submission. Recommend preliminary and final allocations for
departments according to national and provincial priorities within the fiscal
framework. Ensure that an analytical report is prepared on policy alignment
and allocative efficiency as inputs for National Treasury (NT) Benchmark
exercise by utilising the second budget submission. Co-ordinate the
compilation and consolidation of the budget submission that will be tabled in
the Provincial Legislature. Ensure that support is provided to departments to
compile their budget submissions. Ensure that a report is compiled on the main
budget and that it is loaded on Basic Accounting System (BAS). Ensure that
the adjusted Budget Publications Are Within Legislated Timeframes and are At
Acceptable Quality Levels: Ensure that a report on recommendations of the
departmental roll over requests of conditional grant and equitable share are
produced for National Treasury and Executive Council (EXCO.) Ensure that a
‘commitment register’ is maintained on a department’s adjusted budget.
Ensure that guidelines are provided to departments for them to complete the
adjusted estimates in the prescribed format. Recommend allocations for
departments according to PFMA requirements and within the fiscal framework.
Compile and consolidate adjusted budget for tabling in the Provincial
Legislature. Ensure that support is provided to departments to compile their
129
adjusted budget submission. Ensure that a report is compiled on the adjusted
budget and that it is loaded On Bas. Ensure that the Departmental Strategic
Plans (SP) And Annual Performance Plans (App) Comply with and are in
alignment with national and Provincial Policy Priorities; Manage and monitor
departmental SP and APP and ensure alignment with national and provincial
policy priorities as well as NT frameworks. Do an analysis of the strategic and
annual performance plans in order to ensure alignment of budget allocations
to them. Manage The Monthly IYM Analysis on Revenue and Expenditure
Inclusive of feedback To Departments: Ensure that the consolidation and
evaluation of credible and reliable departmental cash flow projections are
compiled for NT and EXCO. Ensure that weekly expenditure reports are
compiled to inform the monthly IYM. Consolidate analysis of monthly revenue
and expenditure for reporting to NT and EXCO. Ensure that monthly IYM
feedback is provided to departments on the analysis by PT. Ensure that
support is provided to departments to with the implementation and monitoring
of the IYM. Ensure the year-end IYM is balancing to the pre-audited and
audited AFS for submission to NT. Manage The Quarterly Performance
Reports (QPR) Analysis Inclusive of feedback to Departments: Ensure that the
analysis of QPR from departments is undertaken and compile consolidated
quarterly report. Ensure that quarterly QPR feedback is provided to
departments on the analysis by PT. Ensure that the integration, analysis and
reporting on non-financial and financial performance information is undertaken
in order to ensure the expenditure of departments is aligned to the deliverables
espoused to the tabled APP, Policy Speech and the Budget Ensure that
support is provided to departments to with the implementation and monitoring
of the QPR. Conduct quarterly QPR workshops for with departments and
Entities. Ensure that site visits are undertaken and a report compiled at least
every quarter to inform budget and other policy decisions. Manage Area of
Responsibility: Supervise and co-ordinate the effective and efficient running
and management of the Unit. Develop and implement service delivery
improvement programmes. Develop and supervise the implementation of the
Unit’s Annual Operational Plans. Monitor and report on the implementation
thereof monthly, quarterly and annually. Ensure that performance agreements
and development plans are developed and implemented for all staff in the Unit
within set timeframes. Ensure that staff performance is managed daily and that
Performance Assessments of all employees in area of responsibility are done
timeously and within agreed timeframes. Ensure that vacancies are filled
timeously and that the Recruitment, Selection and Placement of staff is
according to laid down policy and procedure. Ensure the implementation and
management of Risk, Finance and supply-chain Management protocols and
prescripts in area of responsibility). Implement And Manage Risk, Finance and
Supply-Chain Management Protocols and Prescripts in area of Responsibility.
Identify and manage risks in area of responsibility. Ensure timely budgeting,
monitoring, variance analysis and reporting. Ensure that Procurement Planning
takes place, that specifications are developed timeously and that there is
compliance with supply chain prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s assets are
managed, maintained and kept safely. Weigh up financial implications of
propositions and align expenditure to cash flow projections.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured Female / African Male
POST 17/178 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: PT 04/05/2025
Purpose: To ensure the implementation of the Internal Audit Plan, provide
assurance on governance risk management and control processes in
accordance with ISPPIA and the legislative framework in the department.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Commerce at NQF Level 7 with Auditing and Accounting as major
subjects with CIA or CA(SA). 5 years’ experience at middle or senior
management level in Auditing environment. Applicants to have obtained pre-
entry Nyukela Certificate (certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service from the National School of Government submitted prior to
appointment). Skills And Competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative
130
framework that governs the Public Service. Sound knowledge and application
of standards governing Internal Auditors – IIA standards and methodology.
Internal Audit regulatory frameworks and policies. Practice of Internal Auditing,
Risk Management Strategy, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)Support,
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)Process, Anti-Fraud Process and
Enterprise Risk Management Concepts, framework and methodologies.
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Project and Programme Management.
Budget and Financial Management, Change Management, People
Management and Empowerment.
DUTIES : Manage The Provision of Internal Audit Services in the Department: Develop
the 3-year rolling audit plan. Ensure availability of appropriate resources
completion of the audit plan. Institute Audits as requested or as deemed
appropriate. Ensure the development / refinement of audit programmes.
Monitor progress and completion of the audit plan. Ensure provision of reports
to relevant Managers. Follow-up to ensure that appropriate action is taken by
relevant Departmental Managers. Manage The Provision of Administrative and
Technical Support to Audit Committee: Ensure the secretariat duties is
performed to the Audit Committee sitting. Ensure Technical support assistance
to the Audit Committee is provided. Develop Audit Committee reports annually.
Manage And Co-Ordinate the Provision and Management of Internal Audit
Service: Develop Internal Audit strategic and operational audit plans in
accordance with acceptable audit standards. Guide the provision of internal
auditing services and make value added recommendations to enhance the
overall performance of organisation. Coordinate and manage all audit
assignments. Develop Internal Audit policies and Procedures in accordance
with IIA standards. Manage And Monitor Assurance and Consulting Activities:
Manage and monitor in compliance with laws and regulations. Ensure
acceptable quality and compliance to International Standards for the
professional Practice of Internal Auditors issued by the Institute of Internal
Auditors. Evaluate and improve quality, adequacy and effectiveness of internal
controls. Manage The Review of Information Technology and Financial Audits
as well as Specialized Audits: Review departmental systems both applications
and general controls. Review User access, IT security and data management.
Review compliance with ethical and social practices including IT norms and
standards. Review of compliance with COBIT 5 and other related frameworks.
Manage Area of Responsibility: Prepare progress reports on compliance
matters and submit reports to internal and external stakeholders. Determine
most effective procedures and methods and render advice relating
organisational efficiency to achieve organisational goals. Advise management
of latest guidelines, resolutions from DPSA relating to Internal Audit. Maintain
high standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in
terms of quality / quantity and timeliness, Resolve problems of motivation and
control with minimum guidance from supervisor. Delegate functions to staff
based on individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and
afford staff adequate training and development opportunities, Ensure
Performance Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development Plans
(PDP’s) for all subordinates are developed and implemented timeously,
Manage employee performance daily and ensure timely submission of
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Implement And Manage Risk,
Finance and Supply-Chain Management Protocols and Prescripts in area of
Responsibility: Identify and manage risks in area of responsibility. Ensure
timely budgeting, monitoring, variance analysis and reporting. Ensure that
Procurement Planning takes place, that specifications are developed timeously
and that there is compliance with supply chain prescripts. Ensure the Unit’s
assets are managed, maintained and kept safely. Weigh up financial
implications of propositions and align expenditure to cash flow projections.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured Female / African Male
131
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/179 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION & ACCOUNTING
REF NO: PT 05/05/2025
Purpose: To manage the implementation of Financial Administration and
Accounting Services in the Department.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Accounting /
Financial Management or equivalent tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 with
specialization in Financial Accounting. Minimum of 5 years’ work experience in
Finance / Accounting management environment of which 3 years should be at
an Assistant Director level with specific experience relevant to compiling
Annual Financial Statements. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of
Legislative Framework and Policies and Regulations that Governs the Public
Services. In-Depth knowledge of the following prescripts. Public Finance
Management Act. National Treasury Regulations . GRAP, Annual Financial
Statement Guidelines. National Treasury Practice Notes. Financial
Management. Document management. Microsoft Excel, Word and
PowerPoint. Applied Strategic thinking, Apply Technology, Budgeting and
Financial Management, Communication and Information Management,
Continuous Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing
others, Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal
Conflict and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning
and Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management,
Team Leadership, Analytical Thinking, Communication (verbal & written),
Computer Literate.
DUTIES : Manage The Reconciliation of Inter-Departmental Accounts and Safekeeping
of Financial Records: Ensure that all outstanding inter-departmental debts and
balances are followed up and cleared. Ensure reconciliation and clearing of
suspense, bank, asset and liability accounts. Reconcile financial records and
ensure records properly filed. Ensure sound management verification of
payments register. Authorise adjusting journal entries with supporting
documentation. Ensure timeous settlement of inter-departmental debts and
liability accounts. Manage The Development of Monthly, Quarterly and Annual
Financial Reports: Manage compilation of monthly, quarterly and annual
financial reports. Ensure preparation of interim and annual financial statement
in line with the prescribed annual Financial Statements guidelines. Ensure that
suspense accounts reconciliations are carried out monthly. Ensure preparation
of age analysis of suspense account and interdepartmental claims and
submitted to provincial Treasury. Ensure bank reconciliation is carried out
monthly. Manage Area of Responsibility: Maintain high standards by ensuring
that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity
and timeliness, Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum
guidance from manager, Delegate functions to staff based on individual
potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford staff
adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure Performance
Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
subordinates are developed and implemented timeously. Manage employee
performance daily and ensure timely submission of Performance Assessments
of all subordinates. Ensure assets are managed, maintained and kept safely
by subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
POST 17/180 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF
NO: PT 06/05/2025
Purpose: To manage the provision of Demand and Acquisition Management
Services for the department.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
132
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Supply Chain Management
/ Public Administration / Logistics / Commerce coupled with Minimum of 5
years’ work experience in Procurement environment of which 3 years should
be at an Assistant Director Level. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge,
understanding and application of the following prescripts: Public Finance
Management Act, PPPFA, and BBBEE Act, National Treasury Regulations,
Supply Chain Management Practices and Policies, Risk Management Policies
and Practices, Asset Management Framework, Preferential Procurement
Policy Framework Act, Negotiation techniques, Budget preparation, Bid
Administration, Procurement, LOGIS and BAS Financial Systems, Tender and
contract administration. Applied Strategic Thinking. Applying Technology,
Budgeting and Financial Management. Communication and Information
Management, Continuous Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness,
Developing Others, Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing
Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building
Bonds, Planning and Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making,
Project Management, Team Leadership, Computer Literate, Good
Communication Skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage, Develop and Implement Demand Management Policies, Procedures
and Annual Procurement Plan for the Department: Render guidance and
advice to departmental employees on demand management matters to
promote correct implementation and sound demand management practices.
Design and develop demand management policies processes and procedures.
Monitor effectiveness of departmental policies with regards to acquisition
management. Perform strategic and annual supply chain demand
management planning. Review, analyse and monitor demand management
plan. Manage the implementation of the demand management plan.
Consolidate and monitor procurement plan for the department. Implement
strategic procurement for the depart and develop sourcing strategies. Develop
and obtain approval for the procurement management plan. Determine
whether specifications should contain any special conditions. Compile tender /
quotation specifications, request for proposal as required. Determine whether
specification for the relevant commodity exists, if not oversee the collection
information and compile specification / terms of reference. Compile and publish
request for proposals where required. Ensure functioning of the Bid
Specification, Quotations Committees and render a secretariat service to the
relevant committees. Conduct market research analysis. Provide inputs for the
development of Standard Operating Procedures. Conduct briefing sessions.
Manage The Acquisition Management Services and Bidding Process in the
Department: Facilitate the development of acquisition management policies
processes and procedures. Monitor the acquisition management activities by
ensuring compliance to SCM prescripts. Manage the Compilation of bid
documents and advertisements. Monitor the process of receipt (closing and
opening) of bid documents. Oversee the processing of bid documents by
ensuring that all bid documents are complete. Manage the sourcing of
quotations from the database according to the threshold values determined by
the National Treasury. Facilitate the development of terms of reference to invite
service providers for an expression of interest. Receive, evaluate and
adjudicate expressions of interest. Ensure that all required acquisition reports
are presented to the relevant committees and submitted for approval to the
Head of department on time every time. Ensure that orders are issued on time
and no services are rendered without an official order. Manage Area Of
Responsibility: Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section
produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness, Resolve
problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from manager,
Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary
guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and development
opportunities, Ensure Performance Agreements, Work Plans and Personal
Development Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates are developed and
implemented timeously, Manage employee performance daily and ensure
timely submission of Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
assets are managed, maintained and kept safely by subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
133
POST 17/181 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT REF NO: PT
07/05/2025
Purpose: To manage SCM transversal contracts, strategic procurement
mechanism and provide contract management support to Provincial
Departments and Public Entities.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Management
majoring in Supply Chain / Finance coupled with Minimum of 5 years’ work
experience in SCM environment of which 3 years should be at an Assistant
Director Level. Skills And Competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative
framework that governs the Public Service. Knowledge and application of
National and Provincial Treasury Instruction Notes, Practice Notes and
Circular. Applied Strategic Thinking. Apply Technology, Budgeting and
Financial Management, Communication and Information Management,
Continuous Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing
Others, Diversity Management, Impact and Influence. Managing Interpersonal
Conflict and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning
and Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management,
Team Leadership, Analytical Thinking, Computer Literate, Good
Communication Skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage Contract Awarding Compliance: Facilitate the review process of
business cases and conduct research on opportunities for transversal
contracts. Coordination and participation of stakeholders in transversal
contracts. Facilitate the arrangement of transversal contracts by ensuring that
the right processes of awarding contracts have been followed. Manage and
support centralised supplier systems by ensuring that all complaints and
enquiries are dealt with. Manage and provide support on the drafting of tender
adverts and ensure that they are at an acceptable standard. Facilitate the
review of Bids received from Departments by ensuring that the right processes
of evaluating tenders have been followed; handle any anomalies detected in
the review of submission process thereof. Ensure all secretariat services of the
convene committee are met. Manage The Implementation and
Institutionalisation of Contract Management: Facilitate the development of
questionnaires and conduct onsite assessments on current contract
management. Manage the development of a contract management plan in
conjunction with the Department. Manage the monitoring of the contract
management plan and analyse responses from stakeholders to ensure update
on status of Gap analysis report Manage support rendered to departments on
contract management disputes. Manage the arrangement of contract
management workshops and roll-out best practises to institutionalise contract
management in the Departments. Promote Contract Management Strategic
Procurement: Conduct research on processes and opportunities to improve
value for money by analysing spending patterns and identifying more efficient
mechanisms for service delivery. Facilitate the implementation and
maintenance of price referencing systems for low value/high volume
commodities. Coordinate implementation measures and monitor the impact for
value for money initiatives Departmental spend. Develop and set targets per
department for local economic development. Support initiatives to promote
local economic development by directly participating in campaigns i.e. Buy EC
Campaign. Manage Area Of Responsibility: Maintain high standards by
ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality /
quantity and timeliness, Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager, Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities, Ensure Performance
Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
subordinates are developed and implemented timeously, Manage employee
performance daily and ensure timely submission of Performance Assessments
of all subordinates. Ensure assets are managed, maintained and kept safely
by subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
134
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
POST 17/182 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL BUDGET AND REVENUE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 08/05/2025
Purpose: To monitor and provide specialist support on the implementation of
the budgeting frameworks, financial assets and liabilities management,
institutional governance and report on MFMA implementation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Management /
Financial Accounting coupled with Minimum of 5 years’ work experience in
Finance environment of which 3 years should be at an Assistant Director Level.
Previous experience in monitoring or working in municipal environment is
essential overseeing and assessing municipal budgets and Revenue
Management combined. Skills And Competencies: In-depth understanding of
legislative framework that governs the Public Service, Risk Management
policies and practices, Supply chain management policies and practices, Asset
Management policies and practices, Departmental policies and procedures,
Understanding local government budgeting, monitoring and reporting system,
Understanding of local government financial regulatory framework, Proven
knowledge on local government legislation, Knowledge of Policy analysis and
developments, Monitoring systems and processes. Budget submission.
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management.
Budget and Financial Management, Planning and organising, Technical report
writing, Negotiation and facilitation, Numeracy, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Information Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Creative thinking, Problem Solving and Analysis, People
Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication (verbal & written), Computer Literacy, Extensive strategic
planning.
DUTIES : Monitor And Provide Specialist Support on Budget Planning and
Implementation: Train municipal staff on the planning and implementation of
the Municipal Budget and Reporting Regulations. Assess tabled budgets on an
annual basis for credibility, relevance to government priorities and
sustainability using a Budget Assessment Framework and provide comment
and feedback to municipalities. Compile a tabled budget assessment report for
each municipality. Support municipalities in ensuring that recommendations on
assessed tabled budgets are incorporated into the budgets prior to adoption.
Provide all required reporting to NT on tabled and adopted budgets by
municipalities. Monitor and support municipalities to address non-compliance
in terms of the tabled and adopted budgets. Engage municipalities in municipal
benchmarking exercise on all tabled and adopted budgets. Analyse monthly,
quarterly and mid-year reports, prepare feedback to municipalities and monitor
the implementation of corrective measures. Identify municipal financial
problems requiring attention and support municipalities to resolve issues.
Assess and report on the Financial Management Capability Maturity Model
(FMCMM) to determine weaknesses and implement measures to strengthen
functionality and compliance. Monitor And Support Municipalities on
Governance and Institutional Management, In Line with MFMA Requirements:
Assess MFMA implementation, compile reports and submit to the Supervisor.
Monitor, evaluate and report on Risk Management and Internal Audit
compliance and facilitate the implementation of corrective measures. Conduct
and compile assessment reports on governance and compliance structures
and assist municipalities to implement recommendations. Support
municipalities to establish appropriate governance and compliance structures,
systems and processes and review the effectiveness and functionality of these
structures on a quarterly basis. Review and assess Municipal Budget and
Treasury Office Structures quarterly, and report on vacancies in financial
management activities. Assist in the implementation of approved financial
recovery plans for municipalities where necessary. Prepare Training Plan and
roll out training as per the approved Training Plan to address challenges in
municipalities. Monitor Compliance with Financial Assets and Liabilities and
Revenue Management: Assist in monitoring financial asset management
compliance and compile a report. Assist in monitoring liability management
compliance and compile a report. Assist in monitoring revenue management
compliance and compile a report. Monitor and facilitate the implementation of
135
the recommendations on corrective actions to be taken regarding financial
asset management, liability management, and revenue management. Support
municipalities on exploration of policies and practices with the aim of improving
liquidity of municipalities to deliver services. Manage Area of Responsibility;
Review supply chain performance and make recommendations to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the supply chain management. Report on supply
chain management information as required by internal and external
stakeholders. Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section
produces excellent work in terms of quality/quantity and timeliness. Resolve
problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from manager.
Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary
guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and development
opportunities. Ensure timeously development and implementation of Work
Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates. Manage
daily employee performance and ensure timely Performance Assessments of
all subordinates. Ensure the implementation and management of Risk, Finance
and supply-chain Management protocols and prescripts in area of
responsibility. Ensure management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
POST 17/183 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT, AUDIT COMMITTEE & DC
BOARDS
Purpose: To promote and enforce internal audit services in the municipalities.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in Local Government Finance
or Internal Auditing coupled with 5 years’ experience of which 3 years’
managerial experience Assistant Director Level in a Local Government
environment. Previous experience in auditing and working in a municipal
environment is essential.
DUTIES : Monitor, Enforce and Report on the Effective Implementation of the MFMA,
Treasury Regulations and Standards to Ensure Compliance: Develop
provincial norms and standards. Develop the assessment tool. Quality review
of the assessment reports. Manage the compilation and issuing of assessment
report. Review and monitor the implementation of recommendations. Ensure
the effectiveness of the implementation of the action plans. Coordinate the
effective implementation of combined assurance. Facilitate And Monitor the
Establishment of Audit Committees within the Municipalities: Coordinate and
oversee the establishment of Audit Committees. Assess and monitor the
effectiveness of Audit Committees. Provide inputs on the internal audit
strategy. Facilitate internal audit readiness reviews. Provide Support and
Capacity Building to Municipalities: Facilitate capacity building initiative.
Facilitate internal Audit and Audit Committee Forums. Provide inputs into the
development and review of Internal Audit and Audit Committee. Facilitate
implementation of external quality assurance review. Manage The Component:
Perform strategic and operational planning. Manage stakeholder relationships.
Oversee the administrative support functions. Perform financial management
functions. Perform asset management functions. Skills And Competencies:
Extensive knowledge of local government prescripts in the areas of internal
audit, audit committee, municipal budget reviews; financial management and
reporting, expenditure management, cost effective procurement systems and
effective asset & liability management. The candidate should be familiar with
the auditing and accounting reforms in the municipal space in line with MFMA,
GRAP Standards, Municipal Budgets, MBRR and mSCOA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
136
POST 17/184 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL ASSETS MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT
10/05/2025
Purpose: To enhance, monitor and enforce the transparent and effective
management of physical assets.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in Accounting / Commerce
majoring in Accounting coupled with 5 years’ experience of which 3 years’
managerial experience at Assistant Director Level in Financial / Asset &
Inventory Management environment. A driver’s license is essential. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of AM Legislation & Prescripts. Knowledge and
application of PFMA. Knowledge of Standard Chart of Accounts. Knowledge of
International Financial Reporting Standards. Project Appraisals, Applied
Strategic Thinking. Apply Technology, Budget and Financial Management,
Communication and Information Management, Continuous Improvement,
Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, developing others, Diversity Management,
Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving
Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and Organising, Problem
Solving and Decision Making, Policy Analysis, Project Management. Team
Leadership. Audit Skills.
DUTIES : Manage Physical Asset Management Policy, Norms and Standards:
Coordinate the assessments on the extent to which asset management related
controls are implemented within departments. Facilitate and implement
strategies to address gaps identified by assessment results. Coordinate and
evaluate the implementation of these corrective strategies and provide senior
management with periodic reports. Facilitate and coordinate in the
development and implementation of appropriate asset management policy.
Manage the treatment and disclosure of inventories related expenditure in
compliance with the relevant guidelines. Manage the preparation of financial
disclosure annexures and notes relating to expenditure on movable and
immovable assets. Issue annual circular communicating the submission dates
for the U-AMPs and C-AMPs in terms of Section 9 of GIAMA. Facilitate and
provide support in the review and implementation of annual provincial GIAMA
implementation plan by DRPW. Manage the revision and submission of draft
U-AMPs and C-AMP to National Treasury in conjunction with DPWI. Provide
Support in Provincial Departments with Asset Management Capacity Building:
Conduct annual assessments of provincial asset management structures for
adequacy and relevance to perform asset management function. Support the
identification of training needs and planning for relevant training. Conduct
workshops and forums aimed at roll-out of asset management related reforms
from National Treasury as well as enhancing provincial best practices sharing
amongst practitioners. Manage The Development and Maintenance of
Policies, Strategies and Systems for Asset and Inventory Management;
Coordinate the development of asset and inventory Management
policies/procedure manuals and systems. Coordinate the development of
Provincial Treasury Practice notes and compliance checklist tool with regards
to assets and inventory management. Manage the development of procedure
guidelines to promote compliance with the reporting standards. Manage the
development of asset and inventory strategies in line with the service delivery
objectives. Coordinate the review of asset and inventory Management policies,
procedure manuals, systems, Treasury Practice notes and compliance
checklist tools. Monitor And Support Departments and Public Entities on
Safeguarding of Assets: Monitor the safeguarding of assets against
destruction, theft and obsolescence. Monitor that all losses of assets are
reported, investigated and finalized. Monitor that departments and entities
have functional loss control committees. Monitor And Support Departments on
Financial Management and Reporting on Assets and Inventory: Monitor and
support departments and public entities on asset register, trial balance and
expenditure reconciliations. Perform reviews of Annual Financial Statements
(AFS)/ Interim Financial. Statements (IFS) on asset and inventory
management of departments and entities. Monitor and support departments
and public entities on the development and implementation of audit action plan
regarding management on assets and inventory. Provide support on resolving
audit findings on non-current and current assets of the provincial departments
and public entities. Monitor and support entities on the review of Estimated
Useful Life (EUL) and residual values (RV) and impairment of Property, Plant
137
and Equipment (PPE). Provide support to departments and entities on the
valuation of assets. Provide support to departments and public entities with
financial reporting tools for interim and annual financial statements disclosures.
Monitor And Support Departments and Public Entities on Asset and Inventory
Management Strategies: Monitor and support departments and public entities
on the implementation of asset management strategies and value for money
of assets and inventory. Monitor that departments and public entities have
asset management plans. Monitor and support departments and public entities
to develop and maintain complete and accurate assets and inventory registers.
Monitor and support departments and public entities on the application of
inventory management techniques. Monitor and support departments and
entities on asset verification and inventory stocktaking processes. Perform
periodic compliance assessments in departments and public entities to
establish compliance with relevant legislation. Manage The Implementation of
transparent and economic practices to deal with asset disposal in the Provincial
Administration: Monitor that obsolete, redundant and unserviceable assets are
disposed of. Monitor the establishment of disposal committees. Monitor
compliance with SCM prescripts on asset disposal. Monitor and support
departments and public entities on the reconciliation of disposal proceeds.
Monitor the maintenance of proper asset registers. Monitor compliance with
internal control processes regarding asset disposals. Coordinate The
capacitation of asset and inventory management section in the departments
and public entities: Identify asset and inventory management capacity GAPS
and coordination strategies to address the capacity GAPS. Provide on-the-job
training on assets and inventory management. Conduct workshops on policy
framework, Treasury Regulations and Accounting Norms and Standards.
Coordinate training interventions on assets and inventory management.
Manage area of Responsibility: Prepare progress reports on compliance
matters and submit reports to internal and external stakeholders. Determine
most effective procedures and methods and render advice relating
organisational efficiency to achieve organisational goals. Advise management
of latest guidelines, resolutions from DPSA relating to Physical Assets and / or
any related matter/s. Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team /
section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness.
Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from
manager. Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the
necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities. Ensure Performance Agreements, Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all subordinates are developed and
implemented timeously. Manage employee performance daily and ensure
timely submission of Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
assets are managed, maintained, and kept safely by subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
POST 17/185 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF.
PT 11/05/2025
Purpose: To enhance, monitor and enforce transparent and effective Municipal
Supply Chain and Asset Management.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all inclusive)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Accounting / Financial
Management / Local Government Finance / SCM coupled with Minimum of 5
years’ work experience in an Accounting, Supply Chain Management and
Asset Management environment of which 3 years should be at an Assistant
Director Level. Previous experience in monitoring or working in municipal
environment is essential. Skills And Competencies: In-depth understanding of
legislative framework that governs Public sector, Risk Management policies
and procedures, GRAP, mSCOA regulations, FMCMM, Supply chain
management policies and practices, Asset Management policies and
practices, Departmental policies and procedures, Understanding local
government budgeting, monitoring and reporting system, Understanding of
local government financial regulatory framework, Proven knowledge on local
138
government legislation, Knowledge of Policy analysis and developments,
Monitoring systems and processes. Budget submission. Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management. Budget and Financial
Management, Planning and organising, Technical report writing, Negotiation
and facilitation, Numeracy, Change Management, Knowledge Management,
Information Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Creative thinking,
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication (verbal & written), Computer
Literacy, Extensive strategic planning.
DUTIES : Monitor, Evaluate And Report On Compliance With Supply Chain Management
Regulatory Framework: Review Municipal Supply Chain Management and
Asset Management policies and report on compliance to regulations. Ensure
compliance with the MFMA and all related SCM and AM frameworks by
municipalities including mSCOA regulations. Monitor and evaluate supply
management and Asset management processes and report on compliance
with the supply chain and Asset Management guidelines, framework,
accounting standards and mSCOA compliance. Provide support and advice on
supply chain management and Asset Management processes, policies and
compliance to regulations including external audit support. Review and Report
on Contract Management; Long- and Short-term Contracts; Irregular
Expenditure; Functionality of SCM committees; Deviations; Variations,
Contract Extensions, Financial Management Maturity Capability Model
(FMCMM), Audit support and GRAP compliant Asset Registers. Support,
review and Monitor SCM Procurement plans. Monitor; Review Reports on
functionality and quality SCM and AM systems, registers and Processes.
Provide Advice, Guidance, And Remedial Actions on SCM and Asset
Management Issues and Monitor Remedial Actions: Review, provide advice
and guidance on the Structuring and functionality of SCM committees.
Implement Supply chain management and Asset Management reforms in all
the delegated municipalities and play an oversight role in local government.
Set complimentary standards within the parameters as set by National/
Provincial Treasury and the relevant SCM and AM frameworks. Monitor and
report on municipal policy outcomes. Access and identify capacity gaps,
provide technical assistance and support training initiatives regarding SCM,
AM, Audit Support, FMCMM and mSCOA in all delegated municipalities.
Provide assistance and advice on improving the supply chain management and
Asset Management functions within municipalities. Monitor and report on
recommendations and remedial actions to improve supply chain management
and Asset Management. Provide inputs and advice into other reports related
to supply chain management and asset management. Oversee the
implementation and maintenance of all transversal SCM policies and
procedure manuals in all Municipalities. Participate in the development of all
transversal SCM and AM policies, procedure manuals and guidelines. Ensure
Compliance with the MFMA and all related SCM And Am Frameworks by
Municipalities: Ensure the implementation and compliance with the operational
plan. Ensure the undertaking of site visits to assess compliance with SCM and
AM, Policies, GRAP compliance, etc. Conduct investigation on complaints
received from relevant stakeholders. Follow-up on complaints relating to non-
compliance and implementation of recommendations arising from assessment
report. Provide Technical Assistance and Training with regard to SCM, Am,
Mscoa and Fmcmm in All Delegated Municipalities: Report non-compliance
with relevant legislations, regulations and other initiatives by designated
municipalities to the relevant supervisor. Develop an implementation plan for
transversal matters policies, procedure manuals and guidelines to be
implemented at various institutions. Provide advice and guidance regarding the
implementation and maintenance of transversal SCM policies, procedure
manuals and guidelines. Ensure that transversal SCM Queries or enquiries
(ad hoc) are dealt with timeously. Manage Area Of Responsibility: Perform
strategic and operational planning. Manage stakeholder relationships. Oversee
the administrative support functions. Perform people management functions.
Perform financial management functions. Perform asset management
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
139
POST 17/186 : EXECUTIVE SUPPORT: MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT &
GOVERNANCE REF: PT 12/05/2025
Purpose: To provide executive support in the office of the DDG Municipal
Finance Management & Governance to ensure the effective management and
smooth operation of the Branch
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Public Administration
/Public Management/BCom/ ICT/FIS coupled with Minimum of 5 years’ work
experience in Administration / Finance environment of which 3 years should be
at an Assistant Director Level. Previous experience in monitoring or working in
municipal environment is essential. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and
application of Legislation, regulations and policies that governs the Public
Service, Monitoring and evaluation, Budget submission, HR Management,
Project appraisals, Corporate Communication. Project Management,
Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literate, Change Management,
Financial Management, Problem Solving, Decision Making, People
Management, Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide Direction and Guidance on the effective management of the Office of
The DDG: Ensure staff adhere to relevant protocols in the day to day running
of the DDG office. Play an oversight role in the implementation of governance
systems and take corrective action where necessary. Develop and have in
place internal control systems, policies and procedures where required and
ensure that these are communicated to all and adhered to once these have
been approved by the DDG. Prepare and distribute Annual Planner for the
programme and ensure adherence to it. Maintain high standards of
professionalism by ensuring that the team / unit produces excellent work in
terms of quality, quantity and timeliness. Sensitise and advise DDG and CDs
of upcoming events and the preparations required for these. Recommend and
set up of systems that will help support service delivery in the Unit to meet set
programme objectives. Support The Programme By Providing Strategic And
Technical Leadership in order to ensure the full execution of Departmental
Plans and Programmes: Facilitate preparations for the development of the
Annual Performance Plan and ensure that the APP is implemented once
developed. Coordinate the development and implementation of communication
and stakeholder protocols and ensure implementation thereof. Facilitate the
preparation and the implementation of the Delegations Framework. Coordinate
the preparation and implementation of the Annual Operational Plan and
participate in its development. Ensure that all reports and other required
submissions are provided to the DDG office timeously, and that these are
reviewed and consolidated, as and when required, and submitted to the DDG
within stipulated timeframes. Coordinate Chief Director meetings and ensure
optimum benefit is realised by ensuring that all necessary arrangements /
preparations are done, minutes are accurate, are distributed within 5 working
days and that follow up on resolutions taken happens timeously. Provide
Support Towards Ensuring Appropriate and Sound Finance, Human Resource
Management: Facilitate the timeous submission of Performance Agreements
for the Programme and quality check these prior to submission to DDG;
Facilitate the timeous conduct of quarterly Performance Assessments /
Evaluations and the submission thereof. Provide input to the annual budget
process. Ensure that there is effective expenditure control which is in line with
the approved budget. Ensure the management, safekeeping and maintenance
of assets in the DDG office. Ensure that full and proper records of the financial
affairs of the office of the DDG are maintained. Analyse monthly, quarterly and
any other ad hoc reports to identify risks that could negatively impact
programme performance, advise DDG and CD’s and recommend corrective
action where necessary. Facilitate the development and management of the
Risk Management Register and Plan. Ensure that the budget, preparation of
recruitment and procurement plans is done within agreed protocols. Review
IYM report to Financial Management and Quarterly report to OSM and ensure
information contained therein is accurate, variances on IYM are costed and
that mitigation plans on variances are valid. Ensure timely reporting on
Procurement Plans to SCM, Recruitment Plans to HR, Risk Management and
Audit Improvement Plans and responses to CFO and the Performance. Report
and follow up on deviations.
140
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / White Male /White Female
POST 17/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE BUDGET
PLANNING REF NO: PT 13/05/2025
Purpose: To render support on the planning of infrastructure delivery by
provincial departments and public entities.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) In Accounting / Economics /
Public Administration / Built Environment coupled with Minimum of 3 years'
work experience in Financial Management / Business / Built environment at an
Officer level (Level 7 or higher) and a valid driver’s license is compulsory. Skills
And Competencies: Knowledge of Microsoft Office especially for Advanced
Excel, Graphs and Pivot Table Interpretation. Contract Management incl.
Construction Procurement. Financial Modelling (analysis of economic viability)
Problem solving skills. Presentation. Project Management. Statistical and data
analysis. Policy analysis and research. Analytical Thinker. Report writing.
Presentation. Computer Literacy
DUTIES : Provide And Render Support Towards the Infrastructure Funding Frameworks
and Long-Term Infrastructure Planning: Implement and execute Provincial
Infrastructure Planning in provincial departments. Provide and render support
on the adoption and implementation of unified IDMS norms and standards,
including the project gateway system. Render support on the implementation
of the provincial infrastructure framework. Provide and render support on
Service Plans, U-AMPS and C-AMP, departmental construction procurement
strategies, IPMP and IPIPs in terms of value for money, financial credibility and
compliance; Coordinate inputs into the development, implementation and
monitoring of a customised and institutionalised infrastructure monitoring
system for provincial departments; Coordinate inputs into SDA compliance with
Provincial IDMS requirements. Implement inputs in respect of the alignment of
IDPs with Provincial Infrastructure Plans. Execute And Implement Provincial
Infrastructure Plans: Execute infrastructure project in terms of norms and
standards, affordability, provincial goals, life cycle costing and maintenance
plans. Implement and provide support on infrastructure projects to ensure that
these are done efficiently, effectively, economically and equitably. Monitor the
work of Implementing Agents to ensure that they comply with the PFMA, IDMS,
DORA and PIDF requirements. Coordinate the submission of reports to all
relevant stakeholders on progress made with infrastructure planning, spending
and implementation of infrastructure projects. Provide Support on the Planning
of the Infrastructure Projects of Provincial Departments in Terms of Value for
Money Considerations: Provide support on planning of departmental
infrastructure projects to determine if they are planned in line with norms and
standards requirements. Provide and coordinate inputs on the compilation of
site visits schedule to investigate elements of value for money (e.g. payments
are compared against physical progress made with infrastructure project
implementation, strategic brief information and submit reports).
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male /Indian Female
141
POST 17/188 : ASSISTANT DIRECTORS: FINANCIAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS
ANALYSIS REF NO: PT 14/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Re-Advertisement
Purpose: Perform development, enhancements, support and provide expertise
in Data Warehouse and Reporting Applications through the writing of relevant
queries and the development of data analysis and Business Intelligence (BI)
reports. This role requires a combination of technical expertise, report writing,
problem-solving skills, and a strong understanding of data management
principles
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) In Computer Science /
Information Systems / Financial Information Systems / IT coupled with
Minimum of 3 years' work experience at an Officer level (Level 7 or higher) in
data warehouse developer, data analyst, data scientist, or Business
Intelligence Developer, and with at least 2 years’ experience working with MS
SQL. Experience and knowledge of any BI tools (e.g. MS Power BI) will be an
added advantage. Skills And Competencies: Advanced knowledge and
experience in relational databases. Strong communication skills, presentations
and report writing. Proficiency in MS SQL including ETL (SSIS), T-SQL, and
experience with data warehousing technologies. Proficiency in MS Excel.
Knowledge of data modelling techniques. Strong understanding of data
management principles, including data integration, and data security. Ability to
troubleshoot and resolve issues related to data warehouse performance and
data quality. The ability to work effectively with other team members and
stakeholders to understand their data requirements and ensure the data
warehouse meets these needs. Ability to design, analyse, and interpret
complex data warehouse structures and schemas. Experience in database
design for data warehouse and business intelligence applications, including
relational database structures and normal forms. Responsiveness, Team
Player, Interpersonal Skill, Communication, Collaboration, Planning and
Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making and Project Management.
DUTIES : Business Analysis: Analysis of requests for automation of business process
that have a financial implication. Conduct business requirements needs
analysis. Reviewal of and reengineering of business processes related to
financial systems that require process improvement. Define reporting and
alerting requirements of stakeholders as well as key reporting points and
metrics to be tracked. Analysis of requests for financial systems data to identify
common areas that require standardised reporting - Provide input into the
enhancement of the financial information systems data warehouse standard
operating procedures. Support In Identifying Relevant Data Sources and
Extract Transform and Load Data for the Financial Information Systems Data
Warehouse; Assist in identifying relevant data sources for the financial
information systems data warehouse. integrate data from various sources into
the financial information systems data warehouse, ensuring consistency and
accuracy. Develop and manage ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) processes to
move and transform data between systems. Cleanse, import, and store data
into the financial information systems data warehouse. - Implement and
maintain mechanisms to ensure the quality and accuracy of data within the
financial information systems data warehouse. Implement and manage data
security measures to protect sensitive data. Analyse The Data in the Financial
Information Systems Data Warehouse; Optimize financial information systems
data warehouse performance to ensure fast and efficient data retrieval.
Monitor and analyse data using Business Intelligence tools and techniques.
Design data models to accurately represent business processes and support
data analysis. Collaborate with the relevant internal and external stakeholders
to ensure the financial information systems data warehouse meets these
needs. Manage data requests to ensure prioritisation of stakeholders and
timeous responses. Work as a member of the financial information systems
data warehouse team to deliver business intelligence information to the
stakeholders in a timeous manner. Assist in the analysis of the data in the
financial information systems data warehouse to determine trends / patterns
and potential anomalies that require further review. Development and
maintenance of standardised reports based on identified trends and patterns.
Project Management and Functional Support (Training); Providing project
management support to FIS and related project and data initiatives. Provide
142
project administration. Ensuring that all project activities are accurately
documented. Monitoring project implementation against planned targets.
Escalation of project delays. Supporting project implementation and Change
Management initiatives. Development of required training material related to
project implementation and data initiatives. Provision of Functional support and
training of users. Training of users on the data provided in response to requests
for information and how to use available tools e.g. MS Excel and PowerBI etc.
Administration; Communication of plans and unit performance to critical
stakeholders. Maintain knowledge systems by keeping updated records of all
critical business processes. Annual Performance Plan (APP) and Operational
Plans are developed and implemented within the set standards. Work from the
unit (letters, memos, plans, reports) is of acceptable levels of quality and within
the timeframes agreed in the service standards. Provide input into the quarterly
reporting of the performance of the financial information systems data
warehouse unit. Comply with standard administrative responsibilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Female
POST 17/189 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
PT 15/05/2025
Purpose: To render sound and effective salary administration and payroll
management.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS A Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Financial Accounting/ Financial Management/ Public Finance
coupled with Minimum of 2 years’ experience in Salary Administration
environment at the minimum of salary level 6 or higher. Extensive
understanding of BAS and PERSAL system. BAS and PERSAL Certificates
are essential. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of government prescripts
and financial administration process. Knowledge and understanding legislative
framework e.g. DORA, PFMA. Extensive understanding of BAS and LOGIS
systems. Project Management. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and
Execution. Decision Making. Analytical Thinking. People Management.
Communication (verbal & written). Computer Literate
DUTIES : Payment Of Salaries and Deductions of Payments to third Parties: Recall
salaries to avoid salary overpayment and to avoid unnecessary debt. Ensure
that bond instalments are paid over to the staff when returned by the bank due
to closed accounts. Ensure that salaries are paid over to staff when returned
by the bank due to closed bank accounts or incorrect banking details. Distribute
payrolls to pay point managers. Investigate unidentified debt deductions.
Facilitate Clearance and Reconciliation of Suspense Accounts: Facilitate
clearance of all salary related suspense accounts and ensure that all suspense
accounts are reduced at month end and year end. Ensure that all suspense
accounts are cleared and reconciled and the balances monitored to ensure that
they become zero at month end and year end. File records of signed suspense
accounts. Perform tax reconciliation returns. Facilitate Compilation of Journals,
Preparing Bas Payment Advice Journals and Payment of Travel Allowance:
Check documents before payments. Ensure that form is compiled for payment
and journal in accordance with departmental standards / legislative
requirements Calculate and ensure that all leave discounting, leave gratuity
and S&T allowances are paid in accordance with the legislative requirements
or departmental standards. Capture all salary inputs e.g. advances, S&T and
all allowances within the open month. Implement salary deductions. Capture
officials banking details. Provide Administration Support Services. Attend to
queries or complaints and ensure queries are rectified within the next open
month.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Indian Female
This Post Is Preferable for a person with Disability
143
POST 17/190 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: GOVERNMENT INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT
16/05/2025
Purpose; To render administrative and office support services to the
Government Information and Communication Technology Management.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Office Administration / Information Technology coupled with
Minimum of 2 years’ experience in administration environment. Skills And
Competencies: Understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public
Service. Knowledge and application of departmental polices. Understanding
and application of procurement policies. Supply Chain Management Policies &
Practices. Risk Management Policies & Practices. Budget Submission. Basic
Knowledge of Financial Administration. Asset Management Policies &
Practices. Financial Management, Good Telephone Etiquette, Report Writing,
Planning & Organising, Good People Skills, Problem Solving, Communication
(written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide Secretarial / Receptionist Support Service to The Director: Receive
telephone calls, Perform advanced typing for the Director, Operate and ensure
that office equipment is in good working order. Record engagements for the
Director. Coordinate and sensitize / advises Director regarding engagements.
Compile Schedules of all appointments. Render Administrative Support
Services to The Directorate: Ensure effective flow of information and review
documents from and to the office of the Director. Ensure safe keeping all
documentation in the office of the Director in line with relevant legislation and
policies. Obtain inputs and compile Directorate Reports. Progress Reports,
Monthly Reports, Management Reports, Scrutinise routine submissions /
reports and make notes for the Director. Respond to enquiries received internal
and from external stakeholders. Draft document as required. File documents
for the Director and the Directorate where required. Collects, analyse and
collates information requested by the Director. Clarifies instructions and notes
on behalf of the Director. Coordinate travel arrangements on behalf of the
Director. Prioritise issues in the office of the Director. Manage leave register
and telephone accounts for the Unit. Administer procurement of standard items
(stationery & refreshments) for the Office of the Director. Obtain necessary
signatures on documents and items like procurement and monthly salary
reports. Coordinates the submission of Annual Performance Agreements and
Performance Assessments for the Directorate. Provide Support to the Director
Regarding Directorate’s Meetings: Scrutinise documents to determine actions
/ information/ other documents required for the meeting. Collects and compiles
necessary documents for the Director to inform him / her on the contents.
Record minutes / decisions and communicates to relevant role players, follow-
up on progress made. Prepare briefings notes for the Director as required.
Coordinates logistical arrangements for the meetings when required. render
relevant ict support services to the ICT directorate: Provide support and
required facilitation for the ICT Governance, infrastructure and network,
applications, ICT security as well as service and operations management sub-
directorates. Provide Financial Administration Support Services For The
Directorate: Collects and coordinate all documents related to the Directorates
budget. Assist the Directorate in determining funding requirements for the
purpose of MTEF budget. Keep records of expenditure commitments, monitor
expenditure and alert Director of possible over – and under spending. Check
and collates BAS reports and ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly.
Identifies the need to move funds between items, consult with the Director and
compile draft memo for this purpose.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : This post is preferable for a person with disability
EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Female
144
POST 17/191 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCIAL ASSET & LIABILITIES
MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 17/05/2025
Purpose: To Render Secretarial, Clerical and Administrative Support Services
to the Directorate
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Office Administration / Commerce coupled with Minimum of 2 years’
experience in Administration environment. Skills And Competencies:
Understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public Service.
Knowledge and application of departmental polices. Understanding and
application of procurement policies. Supply Chain Management Policies &
Practices. Risk Management Policies & Practices. Budget Submission. Basic
Knowledge of Financial Administration. Asset Management Policies &
Practices Financial Management. Good Telephone Etiquette. Report Writing.
Planning & Organising, Good People Skills. Problem Solving. Communication
(written and verbal). Microsoft Office skills. Computer knowledgeable.
DUTIES : Provide Secretarial / Receptionist Support Service to the Director: Receive
telephone calls, Perform advanced typing for the Director, Operate and ensure
that office equipment is in good working order. Record engagements for the
Director. Coordinate and sensitize / advises Director regarding engagements.
Compile Schedules of all appointments. Render Administrative Support
Services to the Directorate: Ensure effective flow of information and review
documents from and to the office of the Director. Ensure safe keeping of all
documentation in the office of the Director in line with relevant legislation and
policies. Obtain inputs and compile Directorate Reports. Progress Reports,
Monthly Reports, Management Reports, Scrutinise routine submissions /
reports and make notes for the Director. Respond to enquiries received internal
and from external stakeholders. Draft document as required. File documents
for the Director and the Directorate where required. Collects, analyse and
collates information requested by the Director. Clarifies instructions and notes
on behalf of the Director. Coordinate travel arrangements on behalf of the
Director. Prioritise issues in the office of the Director. Manage leave register
and telephone accounts for the Unit. Administer procurement of standard items
(stationery & refreshments) for the Office of the Director. Obtain necessary
signatures on documents and items like procurement and monthly salary
reports. Coordinates the submission of Annual Performance Agreements and
Performance Assessments for the Directorate. Provide Support to the Director
Regarding Meetings and Directorate’s Meetings: Scrutinise documents to
determine actions / information/ other documents required for the meeting.
Collects and compiles necessary documents for the Director to inform him / her
on the contents. Record minutes / decisions and communicates to relevant role
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepare briefings notes for the Director
as required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for the meetings when
required. Support Director with The Administration of the Directorate’s Budget:
Collects and coordinates all documents related to the Directorate budget.
Assist Director in determining funding requirements for the purpose of MTEF
budget. Keep records of expenditure commitments, monitor’s expenditure and
alerts Director of possible over – and under spending. Check BAS reports to
ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to move funds
between items, consult with the Director and complies draft memo for this
purpose. Compiles the Directorate’s monthly In-Year Monitoring Reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE : This post is preferable for a person with disability. EE Target: African Male /
Indian Male / Female
POST 17/192 : PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK: LOGISTICS AND ASSET MANAGEMENT
REF NO: PT 18/05/2025
Purpose: To render administrative support in the provision of Asset & Fleet
Management Services in the Department
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
145
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate coupled with Minimum of 1 year experience in
Supply Chain / Asset Management environment. National Diploma (NQF Level
6 as recognised by SAQA) in Commerce / SCM / Procurement / Logistics /
Public Management will be used as an added advantage. Extensive
understanding with LOGIS Certificate (s) are essential). Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Interpersonal relations; Decision making;
Diversity citizenship; Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem
analysis; Self-management; Team membership; Technical proficiency.
Movable Asset Management. Procedure on internal and external transfers of
assets. Physical verification. Disposal procedure. Safeguarding, Theft and
losses management. LOGIS, BAS, Reconciliation. Planning and organising,
Computer Literate.
DUTIES : Provide Support Services on Asset and Fleet Management Services in the
Department: Assist with the implementation of policies and procedures to
minimize risks of losses and promotion of effective management of
departmental assets. Maintain and update departmental asset register.
Perform stock counting, verification and evaluation of departmental assets.
Ensure marking and bar-coding of all new assets in the Department. Perform
asset reconciliation with accounting systems. Identify and report redundant,
broken obsolete assets that are due for disposal. Render General Clerical
Support Services: Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and statistics.
Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles.
Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and
maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters and/or other
correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
document register of the component. Provide Personnel Administration
Clerical Support Services within the Component: Maintain a leave register for
the component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep
and maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Provide Supply Chain Clerical Support Services within the
Component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement
forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office
stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Asset Management framework and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574 / Ms. N Cloete
at 083 7351 092. For technical glitches send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
NO CVs).
NOTE This Post Is Preferable for a person with disability. EE Target: African Female
/Coloured Male or Female/ White Male or Female
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 24 MONTHS
PERIOD: 2025/26-2026/27
POST 17/193 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 19 /05 /2025(X1 INTER)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Supply Chain related studies/ Logistics
/ Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/194 : ORGANISATIONA DEVELOPMENY & CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
PT. 20 /05 /2025 (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Operations Management / Work Study
/ Management Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
146
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/195 : STRATEGY & SYSTEMS, MONITORING & EVALUATION REF NO: PT. 21
/05 /2025 (X2 INTERS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Public Administration / Business
Administration with a specialisation in Planning or Monitoring & Evaluation /
Economics / Data Science / Project Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/196 : FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 22 /05 /2025 (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Accounting / Cost &
Management Accounting / Internal Auditing / Financial Information Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/197 : HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION SERVICES REF NO: PT. 23 /05
/2025 (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Archives and Records Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/198 : BUDGET MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC CLUSTER REF NO: PT. 24 /05 /2025
(X3 INTERS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Economics Finance / Public Finance /
BCom Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/199 : INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 25 /05 /2025 (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Construction Management / Quantity
Surveying.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/200 : PUBLIC ENTITIES REF NO: PT. 26 /05 /2025 (X2 INTERS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
147
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in BCom Economics / Financial
Management / BCom Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/201 : FISCAL POLICY REF NO: PT. 27 /05 /2025 (X1 INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in BCom Economics / Financial
Management / BCom Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/202 : CLIENT SUPPORT REF NO: PT. 28 /05 /2025 (X2 INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Supply Chain Management /
Information Systems / Information Technology / Public Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/203 : INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: PT. 29 /05 /2025 (X2 INTERS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in BSC / Quantity Surveying /
Construction Management / Civil Engineering / Architecture.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi Tel No: 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/204 : STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT & TRANSVERSAL CONTRACTS REF NO:
PT. 30 /05 /2025 (X2 INTERS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Information System / Law.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/205 : PROVINCAIL MOVABLE & IMMOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
PT. 31 /05 /2025 (X2 INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Accounting / Finance / BCom
Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/206 : FINANCIAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF NO: PT 32 /05 /2025 (X2
INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
148
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in FIS / ICT / HR / SCM / Finance
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/207 : TRANSVERSAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 33 /05 /2025 (X1
INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 /Postgraduate Diploma NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA) in
Risk Management / Internal Auditing / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/208 : MEDICO LEGAL REF NO: PT. 34 /05 /2025 (X5 INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in LLB Legal related / ICT / Public
Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/209 : MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 35 /05 /2025 (X1
INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/210 : MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 36 /05 /2025 (X2
INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Finance / Economics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/211 : MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 37 /05 /2025 (X2
INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Commerce (Accounting, General
Accounting, Internal Auditing, Economics with Accounting 3 and Local
Government).
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
149
POST 17/212 : MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 38 /05 /2025 (X2
INTERNS)
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Municipal Budget / Internal Audit / Risk
Management / Accounting / Supply Chain Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
POST 17/213 : MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT. 39 /05 /2025 (X1
INTERN)
STIPEND : R94 326. per annum
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with a Degree (NQF level 7 or National Diploma
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Municipal Budget / Internal Audit / Risk
Management / Accounting / Supply Chain Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ndayi at 060 5735 574 / Ms Nokuzola Cloete at 0837351092
For E-Recruitment Enquiries, send an email to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : The applications must be submitted to the via one of the following options: (i)
Recruitment Centre, Community Safety P/BagX0057, Bisho, 5605, or (ii) Hand
Deliver to: The Department of Community Safety, Corner Independence
Avenue and Circular Drive, Bhisho, ERF 5000 Building, 5605, or (iii) use the
provincial e-Recruitment system available at:
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/ (to view the vacancies without logging-in
click on: Jobs). The e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23:59
on the Closing Date. Report any e-recruitment challenges; activation of profile,
password resets, etc by sending an email with your ID Number, profile email
address, details of the challenge to: Yandisa.Singqandu@ecdsd.gov.za.
Applications submitted via this email address will be regarded as lost and will
not be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30
Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday. Applicants are encouraged to
submit using the e-recruitment system
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605-5110/5101
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025. No late/ Faxed/ Posted, Hand-delivered, and e-Mailed
applications will be accepted except where specified
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply. For SMS (Senior
Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
150
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve 12/24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications)
OTHER POST
POST 17/214 : SENIOR DATA CAPTURER EPWP REF NO: DSD 01/05/2025
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus B Degree/ N Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Social
Science/Public Administration/Management/ Information Management
Systems/ relevant equivalent qualification. A minimum of 2-3 years’ relevant
experience in the Expanded Public Works Programme. A valid driver’s license
is a prerequisite. Competencies: Knowledge of the Public Employment
Programmes or Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP). An
understanding of government legislation, policies, and procedures. Must be
good in Excel spreadsheets backed by sound numerical and analytical
knowledge. Good communication skills. Innovative thinking ability as well as
problem-solving skills. Sound interpersonal and Organisational skills. Sound
personal values in terms of honesty, integrity and confidentiality. Be Computer
Literate.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in the collection of reports from all Departmental
Programmes and Districts. Contribute towards the realisation of the EPWP
targets by utilizing the EPWP reporting tools. Provide exception reports on data
received and captured. Develop lists of EPWP reports expected. Ensure
accurate and consistent capturing of projects and work opportunities.
Reconcile reports received vs expected and advise management on
outstanding reports. Provide technical support in the capturing of all allocated
EPWP projects and work opportunities from Programmes and Districts. Assist
with the preparation of inputs to meet the Departmental reporting mandate.
Conduct data quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries may be directed to Mr Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Yandisa.Singqandu@ecdsd.gov.za
151
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the Department
through the filling of these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote
representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the reference number, must be forwarded to Mrs S Hlekiso, Private
Bag X02, Bloemfontein, 9301 or delivered by Hand to Mrs S Hlekiso in Room
228, 2nd Floor, Admin Building, Glen Email: recruitment@dard.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z.83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department. Only shortlisted candidates will submit transcript of
results, Qualification certificates, driver's license, identity document and a C.V.
Shortlisted candidates who possess foreign qualifications and/or short courses
certificates must take it upon themselves to have their qualifications evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), and must please attach
proof of the level of their qualifications after evaluation on all applications.
Applicants are requested to complete the Z83 form properly and in full.
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
these instructions will not be considered. The onus is on the applicants to
ensure that their applications are posted or hand delivered timeously.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial / asset record check, qualification / study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical element
s of the job. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel
will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/215 : DIRECTOR: XHARIEP DISTRICT REF NO: DIR/XHARIEP
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance
CENTRE : Xhariep District: Trompsburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Agriculture. 5 years of experience
at a deputy director / senior managerial level in the agricultural extension and
advisory services and related environment. Valid driver’s license (code B).
Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate (submitted prior to
appointment).
DUTIES : Strategically guide, manage and coordinate all activities in the district towards
ensuring the effective and efficient functioning of the district which includes
inter alia: i.e. Agricultural Extension and Advisory Services; Soil Conservation
Services; Food Security; Economic Development Services, Engineering
Services and Administrative Support Services. Manage District agricultural
projects. Manage the provisioning of all agricultural specific interventions and
engineering support. Participate in and strategically guide and lead the district
to review and/or develop the departmental 5 year Strategic Plan. Ensure the
successful implementation of commitments emanating from Injunctions
relevant to the district. Ensure that the district operation plan is develop signed
off and implemented. Monitor and report on the extent to which the district
152
achieve its strategic objectives, targets and other priorities and commitments
as per the APP / National and Provincial programmes of action. Contribute to
the development of policies and manage the implementation thereof. Manage
the provisioning of administrative support services to the district, including
Veterinary Services through liaison with the Veterinary Services Directorate.
Manage the resources of the district. Ensure sound financial management and
control as well as supply chain management services within the district to the
extent to which such has been delegated. Strengthen integrity management
within the department e.g. to prevent and manage unauthorized, irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Ensure compliance with key legislatives and
other regulation requirements applicable to the district and the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Madiba at 064 063 6910
POST 17/216 : DIRECTOR: THABO MOFUTSANYANA DISTRICT REF NO: DIR/DISTRICT
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyana District: Qwa Qwa
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Agriculture. 5 years of experience
at a deputy director / senior managerial level in the agricultural extension and
advisory services and related environment. Valid driver’s license (code B).
Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate (submitted prior to
appointment).
DUTIES : Strategically guide, manage and coordinate all activities in the district towards
ensuring the effective and efficient functioning of the district which includes
inter alia: i.e. Agricultural Extension and Advisory Services; Soil Conservation
Services; Food Security; Economic Development Services, Engineering
Services and Administrative Support Services. Manage District agricultural
projects. Manage the provisioning of all agricultural specific interventions and
engineering support. Participate in and strategically guide and lead the district
to review and/or develop the departmental 5 year Strategic Plan. Ensure the
successful implementation of commitments emanating from Injunctions
relevant to the district. Ensure that the district operation plan is develop signed
off and implemented. Monitor and report on the extent to which the district
achieve its strategic objectives, targets and other priorities and commitments
as per the APP / National and Provincial programmes of action. Contribute to
the development of policies and manage the implementation thereof. Manage
the provisioning of administrative support services to the district, including
Veterinary Services through liaison with the Veterinary Services Directorate.
Manage the resources of the district. Ensure sound financial management and
control as well as supply chain management services within the district to the
extent to which such has been delegated. Strengthen integrity management
within the department e.g. to prevent and manage unauthorized, irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Ensure compliance with key legislatives and
other regulation requirements applicable to the district and the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Madiba at 064 063 6910
POST 17/217 : DIRECTOR: SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: SRM
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the relevant fields of Engineering /
Sustainable Resource Management. 5 years of experience at a deputy director
/ senior managerial level in the relevant environment. Valid driver’s license
(code B). Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate (submitted prior to
appointment).
DUTIES : Manage the provision of engineering services. Promote sustainable Land
Care. Promote the implementation of sustainable use and management of
153
land. Manage Agricultural Risk and Disaster Management Plan, Manage & co-
ordinate all resources (e.g. human, finance, equipment, etc.) of the Directorate.
Provide inputs to provincial policies on all aspects relating to service delivery
and ensure implementation of all policies which will enable the Department to
fulfil its role in delivering a service in line with the strategic plan to communities
/ clients. Ensure partnership and coordination with relevant role players to
enhance service delivery. Advice the Chief Director: Agricultural Development
Support on all matters in order to ensure informed decision making and forward
planning. Participate in the development of the 5 year strategic plan, the Annual
Performance Plan and Operational Plan for the Directorate. Monitor the
implementation of SRM matters and report monthly, quarterly and annually to
enhance the overall performance of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Mojapelo at 072 711 1809
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/218 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACADEMIC PROGRAMME REF NO:
AD/COLLEGE (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Glen College of Agriculture:
Animal Production (X1 Post)
Crop Production (X1 Post)
Agri-Business, Extension and Rural Development) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF Level 9 (Masters) Degree in Agriculture. 6 years lecturing
experience in a higher education environment. Driver’s license.
Recommendation: A qualification in Education, e.g. Post-graduate Certificate
in Education / Diploma in Higher Education will be an added advantage.
Registration as assessor and moderator.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of the academic curriculum for
the specific disciplines according to the relevant quality standards which would,
inter alia, include the following: Ensure alignment of curriculum/course material
with requirements set for academic institutions and practical requirements;
Participate in peer reviewing of study material and presentations; Conduct
quality control on syllabus guides, lesson plans and presentations for practical,
theoretical and/or short courses; Ensure that assessment and moderation of
assessments takes place in accordance with the required standards (e.g.
Council for Higher Education Standards); Ensure peer/student/module/lecturer
evaluations; Oversee the implementation of the capacity building plan.
Oversee and conduct classes which would, inter alia, include the following:
Prepare practical and theoretical lecturing material and study aids; Present
lectures and tutorials; Oversee the compilation of question papers and
memorandums for assessments; Grade answer sheets, papers and
assignments; Statistical analysis of results; Invigilate during exams and tests
as required; Support students through an advisory and consultative role;
Moderation of exams as required; Monitor the presentation of classes in
accordance with the approved time-table. Manage the presentation of short
courses / vocational training to HET students and other stakeholders which
would, inter alia, include the following: - Ensure the availability of Lecturers to
present short courses / vocational training in collaboration with Further
Education and Training (FET) at the College; Ensure the provision of sufficient
quantity and quality of course material and practical training material and
equipment (fleeces, livestock, equipment, etc.); Manage the applied &
information research conducted by lecturing staff at the Agricultural Training
Institute on production units: - Review the identification of relevant new
information and technology for incorporation in course material. Oversee the
presentation of findings of research at relevant platforms. Oversee the
provision of verbal and written advice and assistance to farmers in subject field.
Manage administrative and extracurricular functions which would, inter alia,
entail the following: Give input towards policy; Participate in Strategic and
operational planning. Oversee the planning regarding governance, academic,
facilities, financial and other related issues; Oversee the Compilation of time
tables; Serve on various committees (including governance committees) (e.g.
subject academic committees etc.); Compile and submit monthly and quarterly
reports; HR responsibility including: Manage subordinates; Development of
subordinates; Maintain discipline; Plan and prioritize work of subordinates;
Performance management. Monitor expenditure and utilization of assets;
154
Comply with the Public Service prescripts; Keep abreast of the applicable
prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new developments in the
subject field. Oversee the planning and execution of ATI events such as open
days, parent weekends, career exhibitions and information days; Undertake
continuous professional development and participate in staff training activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Mngwambe at 072 0831672
POST 17/219 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR REF NO: AA (X13 POSTS)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Glen
Xhariep District: Jacobsdal and Philipolis
Mangaung Metro: Botshabelo
Thabo Mofutsanyana District: Vrede, Warden, Petrusteyn, Bethlehem,
Ficksburg and Ladybrand
Lejweleputswa District: Welkom, Hoopstad and Virginia
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an NQF Level 8 qualification in Agriculture or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience
required. Compulsory registration with a South African Council Natural
Scientific Professions National professional body (SACNASP) or other
applicable and recognised statutory body. Valid driver’s license (with exception
of people with disabilities)
DUTIES : Implement identified agricultural development programmes: Conduct situation
analysis to identify the real needs; Develop action plans which includes
establishing possible solutions and determining resources required; Facilitate
the implementation of best practices and technologies; Monitor agricultural
development programs. Facilitate access to supporting structures (e.g.
transport, market access, municipal services, water and electricity,
Government funded projects etc.) and promote record keeping by all clients.
Render scientific and technical agricultural extension services to internal and
external clients: Facilitate the development of farm business plans; Provide
support for the implementation of projects (e.g. CASP, Ilima, etc.);
Conduct/facilitate demonstrations of farming/production methods to ensure
efficient utilization of resources like soil, water, veld, money, etc.;
Present/organise farmers days, information sessions etc.; Conduct regular
farm visits and use visitation tools for impact assessment; Provide functional
inputs as required by departmental staff; Attend and arrange farmers meeting
in the area of operations. Obtain advice/services from relevant specialists (e.g.
Professional Scientist, Engineering and Economist etc.) and establish
networks and linkages with all relevant stakeholders. Provide support for the
development of research and training activities: Identify research and training
needs of clients; Empower and build capacity of producers, commodity groups
to ensure self-reliance; Facilitate access to farmer training based on the
training needs; Monitor the application of new skills/knowledge acquired by
clients and provide information on production constraints to the Subject Matter
Specialist for further action. Perform administrative and related functions which
would, inter alia, entail the following: Keep relevant databases (including a
register of farmers within area of operation) up to date; Compile and submit
monthly, quarterly reports and other periodic reports as may be required;
Provide guidance to internal clients, co-workers etc.; Comply with the Public
Service prescripts and departmental policies. Safe keeping of physical assets
(where applicable); Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts,
policies, procedures, technologies and new developments to be able to render
an efficient and effective extension service. Ensure service delivery through
appropriate utilization of designated ICT tools/systems: Source new
information technology required from inputs from specialists and make use of
decision support tools as required; Make use of the applicable information and
communication tools as determined by government.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N F Ngulube at 079 228 1042
155
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be hand delivered or posted to the relevant district offices
and Head office where the post is advertised OR apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/. Please see the address below:
Head Office (HO) Physical Address: 26th Loveday Street, Kuyasa House,
Johannesburg, Postal address: P.O. Box 7710, Johannesburg, 2001.
Enquiries: Check Enquiries on the advert.
Districts Ekurhuleni North (EN) Physical Address: 78 Howard Avenue,
Munpen Building, BENONI Postal Address: Private Bag X059, Benoni, 1500.
Enquiries: Ms Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746-8190.
District Ekurhuleni South (ES): Physical Address: Infinity Office Park, 2
Robin Close, Meyersdal Private Bag X8001, Alberton, 1456. Enquiries: Ms
Ellen Raphoto Tel No: (011) 389-6077.
Gauteng East District (GE): Physical Address Corner 7th Street and 5th
Avenue, 5th Floor Telkom Towers, Postal Address Springs, 1560. Enquiries:
Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736-0717.
District Johannesburg North (JN): Physical Address: Corner Biccard &
Jorrison street FNB Building Braamfontein Postal Address: Private Bag X01,
Braamfontein, 2017. Enquiries: Ms Nelisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9378.
District Sedibeng East (SE): Physical Address: Corner Joubert & Kruger
Street SL & M Building Vereeniging Postal Address: Private Bag X05,
Vereeniging, 1930. Enquiries: Ms. Nomathemba Xawuka Tel No: (016) 440
1717.
District Sedibeng West (SW): Physical Address: Sebokeng College 6 Samuel
Street; Zone 18, Sebokeng Postal Address: Private Bag X067, Vanderbijlpark,
1900. Enquiries: Ms Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9193.
District Tshwane South (TS): Physical Address: President Towers Building,
265 Pretorius Street Pretoria Postal Address: Private Bag X198 Pretoria, 0001.
Enquiries: Mr Thabiso Mphosi Tel No: (012) 401 6434.
District Tshwane West (TW) Physical Address: Klipgat Road Old Hebron
College Postal Address: Private Bag X38, Rosslyn, 0200. Enquiries: Ms
Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451.
District Gauteng North (GN): Physical Address: Yorkcor Park Building, 86
Watermeyer Street, Val De Grace, Pretoria Postal Address: Private Bag X75
Pretoria, 0001. Enquiries: Ms. Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641.
District Tshwane North (TN): Physical Address: Wonderboom Junction 11
Lavender Street, Pretoria Postal Address: Private Bag X945, Pretoria, 0001.
Enquiries Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : It is our intention to promote (Race, Gender and Disability) in the Public Service
through the filling of these posts. Applications must be submitted on form Z83,
obtainable from any public service department or on internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za /documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled on the
first page by the applicant. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign this form
may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process. A
fully completed, initialled, and signed new form Z83 (Section A, B, C and D
compulsory and (Section E, F and G ignore if CV attached). A Z83 form and a
detailed CV MUST be attached on hand delivered, posted and online
applications. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on the application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from Human Resources. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (positive Identity, qualification, fraud listing, employment reference, and
criminal record verification as well as the required level of security clearance
process). Where applicable, candidate will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge
or computer assessment test. Following the interview process, recommended
candidate (s) to attend the generic MMS competency assessment. The
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Short-listed
156
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance. Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the
underrepresented groups as per the GDE Employment Equity Targets.
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. The specific
reference number of the post must be quoted. Due to the large number of
applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged. If
you do not receive any response within 3 months, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. No faxed, emailed and late applications will be
considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/220 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISTRICT OFFICE IT SUPPORT REF NO:
REFS/022613
Directorate: IT Service Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Information
Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a minimum of 3
years’ relevant working experience in technical support or in IT at Junior
Management/Assistant Director level. ITIL Foundations Certificate and/or
COBIT 5 Certificate. Client orientation and good customer skills. Knowledge of
legislative frameworks, policies and regulations within the Public Sector will be
an added advantage, technical and interpersonal skills. High level of report
writing good verbal and written communication skills. Initiative for new
technologies and able to apply logic and good problem-solving skills when
faced with new problems. Ability to work under pressure, work with minimum
supervision and as part of the team. Supervisory skills. Valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : Provide technical advice and support for the user base of the Department and
manage LAN and WAN connectivity. Support and maintain daily operations on
LAN, WAN and desktop environment for District Offices to ensure an effective
and efficient environment. Manage all ICT processes related to incidents and
problem management. Supervise the technical Support team to ensure
minimum disruption in the environment. Have work arounds for reoccurring
problems. Attend effectively and timeously to all IT queries lodged by users.
Analyse problems, identify trends and take appropriate preventive actions.
Produce regular management reports on incidents and problem management.
Minimize the impact of incidents by providing solutions and prevent their
reoccurrence. Liaise between management and users. Produce high level of
report writing. Initiate and implement improvements in all areas of IT
responsibility. Manage and allocation of work to Assistant Directors and/or
technicians and conduct performance evaluation. Ensure compliance and
monitoring of approved ITSM policies, procedures, guidelines and standards.
Monitor vulnerabilities, patch management and ensure compliance as per the
stipulated standards. Manage and monitor the GUP Server efficiently and
effectively at a district level. Conduct, perform and monitor all administration
duties. Meeting deadlines on projects and tasks allocated. Manage and ensure
compliance on IT infrastructure. Practice good IT governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Hellen Kganyago Tel No: (011) 843 6693
POST 17/221 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: POLICY, MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
REFS/022614
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/
Public Management with 1-year certificate in Monitoring and Evaluation plus a
minimum of 3 years’ relevant working experience in Early Childhood
Development at a Junior/Assistant Director level. Advance experience in word
processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages. Knowledge of
legislative framework and processes that govern ECD. Understand South
Africa ECD sector. Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations. Research methodology. Monitoring &
157
evaluation methodology, Pre – Grade R and Grade R curriculum development
and implementation. Develop programme for the verification & mapping
process of ECD sites. Procurement procedures. Advanced Ms office
Applications. Clear report writing. financial management. Report writing skills,
Presentation skills, Facilitation skills, Policy formulation Development.
Advance monitoring & evaluation skills. Database development. Information
Systems development. Computer literacy skills, Leadership, managerial and
supervisory skills. Time management. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure that ECD Policies are mediated and implemented and high-quality
research is conducted in the ECD environment to improve quality and increase
access. Manage the development of plans for Policy discussions and reviews
and implementation. Ensure new policy mandate for ECD is incorporated in
ECD Strategic plans for execution. Manage high-quality Research and
Development in ECD. Manage the Development of ECD Strategic and Concept
Documents in line with the Departments Strategic goals and targets Develop
ECD monthly and quarterly statutory reports on all ECD activities. Ensure
development and implementation of monitoring tools and evaluation all ECD
programmes and projects. Ensure the development of monitoring and reporting
templates and tools. Ensure the implementation of School Readiness
Verification across Grade R Classes. Develop and implement frameworks for
ECD evaluation of programmes and projects. Identify ECD services,
programmes and projects to be monitored and evaluated. Ensure monitoring
and evaluation of the ECD facilitators training. Ensure the monitoring and
evaluation of the ECD practitioners training. Ensure the monitoring and
evaluation of the ECD sites. Ensure monitoring and evaluation of the rollout
and implementation of the CAPS and NCF. Ensure the development and
implementation of ECD Data Management Systems. Ensure the planning for
development of ECD Data Management policy, procedures and systems.
Ensure the development and implementation of the data flow policy. Ensure
the development and signing of MOU’s with relevant departments, other ECD
stakeholders & Local Government on access & release of data. Ensure ECD
staff and relevant officials are trained in Data management policies and
procedures. Ensure the ECD Data management systems interface with the
Department’s existing system. Ensure the establishment of information
systems. Supervise & ensure the development of appropriate information flow
systems. Ensure the planning, development & implementation of an integrated
database. Ensure the collection, capturing, cleaning, verification and analyzing
of data. Oversee & ensure the implementation of both an electronic and manual
filing system. Ensure & manage the development of a knowledge management
strategy & implementation. Establish partnerships with Higher Education
Institutions, Further Education & training Institutions, ECD Training Institutions,
Other Government Departments, NGO’s Local Government & other ECD
stakeholders. Establish and maintain partnerships with Higher Education
Institutions for Research and Development, Sharing of best practice from
international practices and new trends and models in the sector. Establish,
ensure, coordinate & manage the meetings with the NGO forum and
communicate all ECD related matters. Ensure the establishment of a
municipality forum and to meet and discuss ECD related matters and to gather
ECD data. Ensure & manage the establishment of a forum for universities and
meet to communicate all ECD related matters, identify and discuss possible
research. Ensure & oversee the establishment of an interdepartmental forum
and to meet and discuss ECD related matters and to gather ECD data.
Establish, ensure & manage the meetings with the Special Needs forum and
communicate all ECD related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Moagi at 071 194 0014
POST 17/222 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
REFS/022618
Directorate: Office of the HOD
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) qualification
in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/
Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office
Management and Technology plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working
experience at Junior Management / Assistant Director level within the
158
secretariat or Administrative Support Environment. Knowledge of Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations and Batho Pele principles, Corporate Governance
principles, Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS) and meeting
procedures and protocols. Completed courses in word processing,
spreadsheets and presentations will be a requirement. Ability to meet
deadlines and to keep confidential information. Willingness to work extended
hours when necessary. A Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide and oversee the provision of executive secretariat services to senior
management meetings initiated by the Office of the HoD. Ensure that various
internal and external stakeholders are informed about Senior Management
meetings with the HoD. Ensure liaison with various internal and external
stakeholders and inform them of documentation required for the senior
management meeting. Ensure that logistics are arranged for internal and
external meetings and enable adequate meeting preparations. Ensure an
accurate record of proceedings, approval and distribution thereof. Ensure the
analysis of various input documents and consolidate such documents in
executive summary reports for consideration by the HOD. Provide inputs for
the drawing up of agendas for Senior Management meetings and ensure the
distribution of agendas. Compile minutes and record decisions and resolutions
taken at Management meetings. Ensure that resolutions taken at relevant
executive meetings are followed up and report thereon to the HoD. Participate
in the development, implementation and maintenance of record management
system for the Unit in terms of applicable departmental policies. Prepare and
provide briefing documentation and speeches. Coordinate the induction of
newly appointed committee members. Handle all queries and provide advice
on governance related issues in line with the Terms of Reference for
Governance Structures of the GDE. Ensure liaison with various internal and
external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amelia Williams Tel No: (011) 3550173
POST 17/223 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022622
Directorate: Asset Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF
Level6/7) in Financial Management/ Internal Auditing/ Business
Management/Supply Chain Management plus a minimum of 3 years relevant
working experience in the Asset management or Supply Chain Management
environment at Junior Management / Assistant Director level. Knowledge of
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Financial Systems, LOGIS and Generally
recognized and accepted Accounting Practice. International Accounting, BAS,
BAUD and Supply Chain Management. Excellent communication skills.
Computer literacy in Excel, Access, Word and PowerPoint, Financial
Management, Managerial skills, Report writing skills and Interpersonal skills.
Valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Manage the development and maintenance of the departmental assets
management system and Assets Management Plan including asset disposal
plan and loss control. Manage the Maintenance of departmental Asset
Registers. Manage the update of paid assets on BAS in the Asset Register.
Ensure that the process of compiling the asset register is according to the
relevant prescripts. Manage the reconciliation of received assets and invoices.
Manage the verification of transfer of assets in line with Sec 42 of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Develop and implement assets
management policy and procedures and guidelines. Maintain a thorough
understanding of Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPF)
regulations, industry trends, current practices, new developments and
applicable laws. Oversee the proactive mitigation of all risks associated with
non-compliance of SCM policies/ National Treasury Regulations, procedures
and guidelines. Ensure the effective, efficient and economic utilisation of
allocated resources Management and Development System.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amelia Williams Tel No: (011) 3550173
159
POST 17/224 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: REFS/022624 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Labour Relations
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Labour
Relations/ Human Resource Management/LLB/Labour Law plus a minimum of
3 years relevant working experience in Labour Relations at Junior
Management / Assistant Director level. Knowledge of legislations which include
but not limited to: LRA; Employment of Educators Act; EEA; PSA; PSR; BCEA;
SDA; COIDA; SASA. Knowledge of Collective agreements concluded at
PSCBC; GPSSBC and ELRC. An understanding of transformation issues and
capacity building processes in education. Ability to work independently as well
as in a team. Good written and verbal communication skills. Valid Driver’s
License.
DUTIES : Implement policy regarding disciplinary enquiries. Manage high profile
disciplinary cases as identified by the employer. Facilitate and manage
resolution of grievance, Represent the Department at various bargaining
council (GPSSBC, ELRC, PSCBC, CCMA). Promote efficient labour relations
policies. Maintain labour peace within the organization.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Milton Mashele Tel No: (011) 355 1506
POST 17/225 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Transversal Human Resource Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022635
Sedibeng East District Ref No: REFS/022637
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF Level
6/7) in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or
Personnel Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus a minimum
of 3 years relevant working experience in Human Resources Management
environment at a Junior Management/Assistant Director level. Knowledge and
understanding of the current HR prescripts and public service legislations,
regulations and policies. Excellent communication (verbal & written) and
interpersonal skills. Demonstrative ability to use human resource information
systems for planning, monitoring and reporting. Ability to work under pressure,
use PERSAL and provide expert advisory support to business. Computer
literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access and MS Office. A valid South Africa
driver’s license is required.
DUTIES : Manage the HRM operations at the district, in a matrix environment; oversee
the sub-directorates conditions of service, performance management and
development, recruitment and selection in accordance with the relevant
prescripts and collective agreements with the Education sector. Coordinate
implementation of the approved post and staff establishment. Manage
employee records at the district. Establish system to ensure successful
implementation of the operational plan as sponsored by Head Office. Provide
input to the HRA budget plan. Fulfil the internal quarterly reporting
requirements and provided analysis to management. Interpret HR Policies and
prescripts. Establish systems to improve customer engagement on HR issues
at the District. Supervise staff and manage their performance according to the
PMS. Provide, co-ordinate and manage policy and procedure on Incapacity
Leave for Ill-Health retirement (PILIR) and the management injury on duty.
Management and capturing of posts establishment, creation, translations,
vacancies and abolishment in accordance with affordability and priorities of the
department on PERSAL. Ensure timeous implementation of changes on
PERSAL / SAP and validation of PERSAL information. Manage the internal
and external auditing of personnel administration matters and ensure that
Auditor-General queries are appropriately managed. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Simangele Shirinda Tel No: (011) 843 6703
160
POST 17/226 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER MR6 REF NO: REFS/022631 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum, (salary to be determined in accordance
with experience as per OSD determination).
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in LLB plus minimum of 8 years post-qualification Legal
experience. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service legislative framework and
Education laws, as well as drafting and interpretation of legislation and
Contracts. Knowledge of South African Constitutional Law and Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act is imperative. The ability to work long hours and
under pressure. A valid driver’s license. Skills: Interpretation of statute skills,
research skills, legislative drafting and formulation skills. Good verbal and legal
writing skills. Good communication (both written and verbal) as well as
interpersonal skills. Well-developed analytical skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate responses to Chapter 9 Institutions. Represent the Department in
all hearings conducted by Chapter Institutions. Draft reports and analysis on
all Chapter 9 Investigations. Attend to all statutory Appeals to the MEC.
Research the legal content of Legislation, civil jurisprudence and provide
reports. Conduct research on the constitutionality and legality of the legislative
frameworks applicable to the Department. Attend to drafting of Provincial Laws,
Regulations, contracts, statutory appeals and vetting of circulars. Provide legal
advisory services to the Department. Ensure compliance with legislation.
Attend to queries regarding the departmental policies. Communicate with
relevant stakeholders on matters relating to Education attend to assigned
duties from the Director. Handle litigation cases. Manage and coordinate
collection of data and information. Obtain and analyse reports from districts
and schools.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Agnes Muthelo Tel No: (011) 355 1182
POST 17/227 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL REF NO: REFS/022628
Directorate: Maintenance Project/Programmes
Sub-directorate: Maintenance and Work Inspections
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Electrical Engineering, or N3 with passed Trade Test in
Electrical, or National N Diploma in Engineering (in the electrical field). A
Wiremen’s License. Minimum of six years’ relevant experience post
qualification. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge of the
legislative prescripts governing the Public Service. Verbal and written
communication skills. Good analytical skills. Report writing skills. Good
interpersonal relations. Candidates must be willing to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage credibility of technical data and information for infrastructure
maintenance. Manage condition assessments. Manage the process of needs
identification for infrastructure maintenance and minor electrical works by
ensuring that customer complaints are investigated and attended to. Facilitate,
co-ordinate and control the implementation of infrastructure maintenance and
minor renovation projects. Ensure that relevant project documentation (bid
documents, specifications, Bill of Quantities) for existing structures and minor
new works is compiled accurately. Manage the execution of projects by
contractors and ensure compliance to relevant legislation and procedures.
Ensure effective contract administration. Facilitate and resolve problems
emanating from projects and develop progress reports on projects. Gather and
submit information in terms of the Expanded Public Works Programme
(EPWP). Supervise the performance and conduct of employees. Administer
the departmental performance management and development system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sissy Baduza Tel No: (011) 843 6792
POST 17/228 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY AND DISASTER
RECOVERY REF NO: REFS/022616
Directorate: IT and Service Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
161
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Information Technology/Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a
minimum of 3 years relevant working experience as a Technician in Information
Technology/ Information Security environment at a supervisory level at a post
equivalent to salary level 7/8. ITIL Foundations Certificate/Security+ will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of Android and iPads mobile devices, IT Security
and Security Governance, Microsoft Office 365, Windows 7,8, 8.1 & 10 and
LAN/WAN support and Working knowledge of the Public Service Act and
Regulations, policy and regulatory environment of information Technology and
security. Good written and verbal communication skills, Computer literacy,
Telephone Etiquette, Good Interpersonal relations, Problem Solving,
Management and Consultation skills. Valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide Information Technology Technical Support service to Head Office and
Satellite Offices. Identify trends and problems relating to information security
and disaster recovery issues. Compile information security risk metrics and
report monthly. Coordination the provision anti-virus protection to ensure data
integrity and eliminate/minimize the possibility of attacks on the departmental
system. Update and maintain information security risk register and software
access in GDE. Facilitate IT support projects at Head Office and Satellite
Offices I.e. Software, Security, project tenders etc. Supervise and provide
support services and monitor LAN connectivity of sites. Provide Technical
support on Information Technology governance and adhoc projects. Implement
network security and Patch Compliance. Report on changes, planning and
performance issues. Conduct Risk assessments and awareness sessions to
GDE computer users. Report on IT project issues and developments. Assist
with planning and coordinating the DR testing for GDE. Coordinate and
promote information security. Install of anti-virus security software for all GDE
end- users. Upgrade of anti-virus security software for all GDE end- users
regularly. Install the Operating Systems Versions and Patches. Monitor the
effectiveness of Anti-Virus & Patches updates. Audit of hardware
specifications, software, applications and report on non-standard conforming
assets. Supervision of staff. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Eva Motshwaedi Tel No: (011) 843 6724
POST 17/229 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL ICT SUPPORT REF NO:
REFS/022257(X2 POSTS)
Directorate: School System Development and Technical Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Information Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a
minimum of 3 years’ experience in providing IT Technical Support and/or
LAN/WAN Support in an ICT environment at a supervisory level at a post
equivalent to salary level 7/8. A valid ICT accredited industry certificate
(minimum of one) would be beneficial (e.g.ITIL Foundation, COBIT, CompTIA
A+, Azure Fundamentals, Citrix Foundation, etc.). Experience with computer
setup, resolving connectivity issues, troubleshooting and data recovery.
Candidates must be proficient with LAN/WAN technologies and Microsoft
platforms (Office 365, Windows OS 10 and 11, Cloud platforms), mobile
devices (Android, iOS), anti-virus solutions, and application support (e.g.,
SASAMS, Citrix, Online Admission). Knowledge of Anti-Virus and malware
prevention measures. Knowledge and support of Mobile Device Management
(MDM) system/technologies. Knowledge of a ticketing (call) management
system. Knowledge of SLA target and management thereof. Knowledge of
Legislative Frameworks within the Public Sector. Knowledge of IT Policies and
processes. Ability to detect and resolve users’ queries on time and have a
general strong problem-solving skill. Innovative thinking abilities, Work
independently as well as in a team, telephone etiquette, project management,
good customer relations, good verbal and written communication skills.
Understanding of IT Governance Framework and ITIL is required. Knowledge
of Data Management is required. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : To manage and constantly monitor the network connectivity environment e.g.
WAN, Broadband, LAN, Wi-Fi, APN, and 3G/4G connectivity. Troubleshoot
and ensure the connectivity uptime and functionality. Ensure all Public Schools
162
are accessible electronically (e.g. Email). Manage technical Desktop Support
functions by providing hardware and software support to Schools. Project
Manage ICT related projects at schools. Manage ticket (call) escalations and
ensure SLA targets are met. Support interactive boards/displays installed at
schools. Provide support to all ICT devices at schools, including providing
support to educators and learners devices. Ensure installation of hardware and
software. Ensure up-to-date software, anti-virus and other malware prevention
measures. Perform ICT security assessments and apply security patches.
Maintain IT registers. Provide roll-out Applications Support to Schools (e.g. On-
line Admission application system, SA SAMS application support, Principals’
Communication platform). Provide support in the implementation of ICT
projects in schools. Supervise and provide support to the IT Support
Technicians. Keep abreast of the IT best practices, IT policies and IT standard
operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mechelle Brink Tel No: (011) 355 1223
POST 17/230 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: REFS/022619
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
Sub-Directorate: Infrastructure Capex and Scheduled Maintenance Projects
and Program Implementation
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF Level
6/7) in Project Management/Public Administration/ Public Management/
Administrative Management/Office Administration or Management
/Management Assistant/ Office Management and Technology plus a minimum
of 3 years relevant working experience in in providing administrative/project
support within the infrastructure environment at a supervisory level and or at a
post equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations, Infrastructure projects/policies and National and Provincial
Frameworks. Excellent communication (verbal & written) and interpersonal
skills. Ability to work under pressure, Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word,
MS Access and MS Office, Planning, Organising, Analytical, Report writing and
Problem-Solving Skills. A valid South Africa driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support to the infrastructure capex and schedule
Maintenance projects and program implementation Sub-Directorate. Compile
the agenda of meetings and circulation of accompanying memoranda. Compile
minutes of the meetings, discussions and workshops to relevant stakeholders.
Co-ordinate meetings including overseeing the logistics, transport
arrangements. Provide support in the development and analyses of projects
reports. Collect and compile information regarding projects that needs to be
investigated. Liaise and monitor projects reporting from internal and external
stakeholders. Analyze infrastructure projects and compile quarterly, annually
and monthly reports for internal and external stakeholders. Implement and
maintain tracking system for all projects. Plan, implement and monitor the
Expanded Public Works Programme Projects. Identify and priorities the need
for the EPWP service in schools. Develop a project plan and implementation
plans of the EPWP. Collect and analyze information received from the schools
on EPWP projects. Monitor the credible non-financial information in the
infrastructure reporting model to ensure compliance. Identify the gap in the
non-financial information in the infrastructure reporting model and notify the
responsible managers/project managers to update the information. Monitor the
credibility of information extracted from IRM for preparation of Infrastructure
End of Year Evaluation, U-AMP and IPMP. Supervise staff. Co-ordinate the
performance agreements/ assessments for the directorate and manage staff
leave.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 17/231 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE CAPEX AND SCHEDULED
MAINTENANCE PROJECTS AND PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
REFS/022651
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
163
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF Level
6/7) in Financial Management/ Project Management/Public Administration/
Public Management/ Administrative Management plus a minimum of 3 years
relevant working experience in providing financial management and
administration/ project support. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations, Infrastructure within the infrastructure environment at a
supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level projects/policies
and National and Provincial Frameworks. Excellent communication (verbal &
written) and interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure, Computer
literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access and MS Office, Planning,
Organising, Analytical, Report writing and Problem-Solving Skills. A valid South
Africa driver’s license.
DUTIES : Prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan [IPMP] and updating the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final
Project List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these
to the Implementing Agent (IA) – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1.
Manage the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that
are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Participate in the procurement
of Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation
and approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of
the Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant
SCM Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Provide support in the development and analyses of projects
reports. Collect and compile information regarding projects that needs to be
investigated. Liaise and monitor projects reporting from internal and external
stakeholders. Analyze infrastructure projects and compile quarterly, annually
and monthly reports for internal and external stakeholders. Implement and
maintain tracking system for all projects. Plan, implement and monitor the
Expanded Public Works Programme Projects. Identify and priorities the need
for the EPWP service in schools. Develop a project plan and implementation
plans of the EPWP. Collect and analyze information received from the schools
on EPWP projects. Monitor the credible non-financial information in the
infrastructure reporting model to ensure compliance. Identify the gap in the
non-financial information in the infrastructure reporting model and notify the
responsible managers/project managers to update the information. Monitor the
credibility of information extracted from IRM for preparation of Infrastructure
End of Year Evaluation, U-AMP and IPMP. Supervise staff. Co-ordinate the
performance agreements/ assessments for the directorate and manage staff
leave.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 17/232 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SMS AND PS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS REF NO: REFS/022615
Directorate: Performance Management and Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resources Management/Development plus a minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience and knowledge of the operations of employee performance
management at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level
8/7. Proven experience in planning and implementing projects. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of the different Performance Management
Systems in GDE. Proven experience of PMDS-PS & SMS. Knowledge of
relevant legislation, collective agreements, policies and circulars. Knowledge
of PFMA. Strong computer literacy and PERSAL knowledge is essential.
Strong verbal, written communication and facilitation skills required. A valid
South African driver’s license.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the effective implementation of
Performance Management Systems in Gauteng Department of Education. Co-
ordinate and monitor compliance of all performance management policies,
regulations and guidelines. Set up systems for implementation of PMDS-PS &
SMS. Capturing scores onto PERSAL. Co-ordinate moderation of scores.
Consolidate and analyse reports from districts. Facilitate the training of officials
on the management, administration and quality assurance of PMDS-PS and
164
SMS processes. Perform other related duties assigned. Co-ordinate Service
Excellence Awards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Motshedisi Ramohloki Tel No: (011) 843 6656
POST 17/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PRE-GRADE R PROGRAMMES REF NO:
REFS/022630
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) qualification in Social Science / Human Science / Public Administration /
Public Management. At least a minimum of 3 years’ experience in the Early
Childhood Development environment at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. A sound knowledge of public service
administration processes. Working knowledge of Early Childhood
Development related policies & legislation. Knowledge of Public Service Act.,
Public Finance Management Act, Project Management, Knowledge and
experience in research on the latest developments related to curriculum
transformation, teaching, learning and assessment methodologies. Good
Communication Skills, Report writing skills, facilitation skills, Computer skills
and good inter-personal skills. Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate job analysis and evaluation for the department.
Ensure identification and prioritization of posts to be evaluated. Coordinate the
submission of job evaluation requests to the Office of the Premier (OOP) for
evaluation of posts or group of posts. Coordinate and facilitate development of
job descriptions in the department. Ensure continuous review of job description
guidelines and template. Provide advocacy on the implementation of job
description guidelines and template. Monitor the facilitation, compilation and
implementation of job descriptions. Coordinate and facilitate business process
management and functional analysis in the department. Ensure the
development, implementation and review of business processes to enhance
productivity. Coordinate business process improvement projects. Develop and
map business process and mapping session with senior stakeholders.
Coordinate and facilitate the development of Standard Operating Procedures
(SOP) in the Department. Ensure the development of standard operating
procedures. Coordinate and facilitate development of Service Delivery Model
in the Department. Ensure the development, implementation and review of
Service Delivery Model in the Department. Facilitate the development of
Service Delivery Model session with relevant stakeholders. Ensure the
effective, efficient and economic utilisation of allocated resources. Identify
subordinate’s development needs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sylvia Moagi at 071 194 0014
POST 17/234 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: JOB DESIGN AND BUSINESS PROCESS
IMPROVEMENT REF NO: REFS/022638
Directorate: Organisation Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) qualification in Management Services/Production Management/
Operations Management/Organisational and Work-study/ Industrial
Engineering/ Industrial Psychology plus a minimum of 3 years’ experience in
an OD Practitioner role performing Job Design, Job evaluation and Business
Process functions at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary
level 8/7. Job Evaluation Certificate and Business Process Management
Certificate will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations., DPSA Guide on Job evaluation and Job Description. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Operations management framework, Job Evaluation
System. Organisational Functionality Assessment. Mapping of business
processes. Skills: Computer literacy, Communication skills, Facilitation, and
presentation skills, Organising and planning skills, Good Interpersonal
relations, and Time Management skills. Driver’s License is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate job analysis and evaluation for the department.
Coordinate and facilitate development of job descriptions in the department.
Coordinate and facilitate business process management and functional
165
analysis in the department. Develop and map business processes. Coordinate
and facilitate the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) in the
Department. Coordinate Organizational Functionality Assessment within the
Department. Conduct Job description, Job evaluation and Business process
advocacy sessions. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Fundzani Buys Tel No: (011) 843 6884
POST 17/235 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATION HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO:
REFS/022621
Directorate: Performance Management Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) qualification in Environmental Health/ Safety Management plus a minimum
of 3 years’ experience in the Occupational Health and Safety field at a
supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7. An in-depth
knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act, Safety Health Environment
Risk and Quality regulations/ prescripts, Basic Conditions of Employment Act
and Regulations, Labour Relations Act policies and prescripts. Good
Communication Skills, Customer Services, Good report writing skills,
Computer Literacy, Conflict and Problem Solving. Ability to work
independently. A valid South African driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) programmes
in the department. Maintain Safety Health Environment Risk and Quality
(SHERQ) standards and regulations in the department to ensure safety
working environment. Manage the identification and assessment and
moderation of occupational hazards and risks. Development of the
Department’s Occupational Health and Safety Policies, Procedures and
Guidelines. Develop and maintain best practices of Occupational Health and
Safety policies, procedures and guidelines. Manage the development and
valuation of Occupational Health and Safety Committee. Supervision and
development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Motshedisi Ramohloki Tel No: (011) 843 6656
POST 17/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: REFS/022633
Directorate: Office of the HOD
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) qualification
in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/
Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office
Management and Technology plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working
experience in the office administrative environment within an executive office
at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge
of information systems, people management and the understanding of the
Batho Pele Principles. Problem solving, analytical, planning, financial
management, report writing skills, computer literate skills, administrative,
analytical, planning, organizational skills and supervisory skills. Good verbal
and written communication skills. Confidentiality in managing documents.
Sound understanding of legislative frameworks, systems, procedures and
processes in government and the public service. Valid driver’s license.
Willingness to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Support HOD with overall office administration and operational activities of the
office of the HOD. Monitor and manage an effective information and
documentation process flow in the office of the HOD. Liaise with the offices of
the MEC and all Branches in the GDE in terms of tracking, referrals,
correspondence and responses and ensure proper workflow. Quality
Assurance of submissions that are received from the different branches of the
Department. Ensure proper document management, handling and appropriate
classification of documents. Coordinate and manage the processing of all
internal, external and electronic queries Facilitate effective internal stakeholder
management and customer relations (Batho Pele) in the Office of the HOD.
Coordinate communication with internal staff. Provide financial administration
and procurement administration. Manage SLA’s and all other service providers.
Co-ordination of Risk management processes. Ensure compliance with PFMA
166
and Treasury Regulations and Accounting principles and Departmental
policies, Financial Delegations and also through applicable compliance
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 17/237 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF HOD REF NO: REFS/022640
Directorate: Office of the HOD
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) qualification
in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/
Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office
Management and Technology plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working
experience in the secretarial or administrative support environment within an
executive office at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level
8/7. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Acts, Skills Development Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Employment Equity Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of information systems, people management and the
understanding of the Batho Pele Principles. Problem solving, analytical,
planning, financial management, report writing skills, computer literate skills,
administrative, analytical, planning, organizational skills and supervisory skills.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Confidentiality in managing
documents. Sound understanding of legislative frameworks, systems,
procedures and processes in government and the public service. Valid driver’s
license. Willingness to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Administer the Head of the Department (HoD)’s diary by arranging internal and
external meetings, follow up meeting schedule, preparing supporting
documents for the meetings, book venue (internal and external), parking and
order refreshments. Coordinate administrative support to the HoD by writing
letters, invitations and memos as requested by the HOD. Prepare incoming
and outgoing correspondence/submissions as requested. Arrange the travel
and accommodation requirements of the Head of the Department (HoD).
Ensuring that all procedures have been followed and forms have been
approved by the relevant senior manager/s. Prepare and process claims for
the Head of the Department (HoD) through ensuring that claims are submitted
within the required timeframes. Ensure the correct budget and other
information has been captured on the claim forms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 17/238 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT PROVISIONING REF NO: REFS/022644
Directorate: Information Technology Service Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) qualification in Information Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer
Science plus a minimum of 3 years extensive experience in an ICT operational
customer service environment at a supervisory level at a post equivalent to
salary level 7/8. A+/ITIL Foundation Certificate; knowledge of call management
and call handling tools and knowledge of legislative frameworks within the
public sector will be an added advantage. Ability to work under pressure. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
Client orientation and customer focused. Ability to take initiative and make
decisions. Ability to analyse and develop reports for presentation to senior
management. A valid South African driver’s license.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the IT provisioning team to ensure high performance and
professional development. Oversee the deployment and maintenance of IT
infrastructure and software. Develop and implement IT provisioning policies
and procedures to ensure compliance and efficiency. Collaborate with other
GDE business units to understand their IT requirements and provide
appropriate solutions. Monitor and manage the cost-effective use of IT
resources. Stay updated with the latest technology trends and best practices
to continuously improve IT provisioning processes. Forecast and plan
infrastructure requirements to ensure ongoing delivery of agreed IT services.
Determining the availability requirements of the business and matching these
167
to the capacity of the IT infrastructure. Measure and monitor Availability,
Reliability and Maintainability on an ongoing basis. Work at reducing the
frequency and duration of incidents. Ensure corrective actions for downtime
are identified and implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Hellen Kganyago Tel No: (011) 843 6693
POST 17/239 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NETWORK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/022394
Directorate: IT Systems and Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
qualification in Information Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer
Science plus 3 years’ relevant working experience in IT environment. at a
supervisory level at a post equivalent to salary level 7/8. Certified A+ and N+.
CCNA is compulsory. Must be able to complete complex networking projects
with minimal supervision. Knowledge of current network hardware, active
directory and TCP/IP protocol. Client orientation and good customer skills.
Knowledge of legislative frameworks within the public sector will be an added
advantage, technical and interpersonal skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills plus report writing. Good problem solving and analytical
skills. Ability to work under pressure. Must have valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support the GDE network. Analyse and monitor the ICT connectivity
environment. Advise on technical changes in the ICT environment. Liaise
between management and Users. Develop methods and tools to be used to
test and implement new LAN equipment, Create projects that are designed to
add functionality required by the department, address on-going network failure
issues, Engage in regular network troubleshooting activities and resolve
network connectivity issues, Analyze the current network structure and submit
quarterly comprehensive reports to executive team on how to make the
network more efficient, Ensure network security and connectivity. Installing &
repair of UTP cabling, Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade corporate
customer’s networks, Monitor network performance (availability, utilization,
throughput, and latency) and test for weaknesses. Resolve problems reported
by end user, Define network policies and procedures, Specify system
requirements and design solutions, Research and make recommendations.
Monthly and quarterly reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Phindile Ngobeni Tel No: (011) 843 6740/46
POST 17/240 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXAMININATIONS ADMINISTRATION (X4
POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Curriculum Management and Delivery
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022620
Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022625
Johannesburg North District Ref No: REFS/022627
Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022629
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
qualification in Public Administration/ Public Administrative Management/Office
Administration or Management /Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working experience within
Examination or Assessment environment in the execution of Examinations
administration at District or higher levels at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge and experience of PFMA, Transport
Policy, Strategic Planning and other legislative frameworks applicable to the
Public Sector will be a strong recommendation. Leadership, management,
conflict resolution and good communication skills (written & verbal). Must have
computer literacy and the ability to work under pressure. A valid South Africa
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee centre and learner registrations in the district. Ensure that
new public and independent centers meet the minimum requirements to be
registered as examinations centers. Manage the registration processes of
Grade 10, 11 and 12, AET Level 4, NSC part-time and repeater candidates;
Supplementary, remark / recheck and the Senior Certificate candidates.
Conduct registration mediation policy sessions with all stakeholders.
168
Administer concessions for all Schools during assessment/examinations
period. Confirm and clear immigrant candidates on the Integrated Examination
Computer System (IECS) and minimize technical irregularities. Establish
readiness of centers to conduct the examinations. Audit registered exam
centers to establish the readiness to conduct the examinations. Manage and
compile examination related plans before commencement of examinations (i.e.
Management and Monitoring Plans). Oversee and support the induction and
training of Chief Invigilators, Invigilators, exam support staff, Candidates on
roles and responsibilities during the exam period. Appoint a Script Library
Manager (i.e. Senior Admin Officer) to ensure safe storage of scripts in the
district. Ensure that Scripts are scanned, packaged and distributed to Marking
Venues. Oversee the conduct, administration and management of
Examinations (i.e. AET Level 4, NSC and amended Senior Certificate, NCS
Preparatory and Final exams). Control question papers received from the Head
Office, and the district’s control list. Ensure that the Senior Education
Specialist, Examination Administration submit a formal report on the conduct
of the exams to Head Office. Manage and report on any irregularities
experienced during the conduct of exam. Facilitate emergency concessions in
collaboration with the Psychologist in the District. Administer result certification
distribution and remarking processes. facilitates the application for the issuing
of certificates -reissue, replacement and combination of result. Ensure control
and collect certificates for external clients (Public). Attend to queries from the
public regarding registration, results and certification. To coordinate and
monitor the budget, resources and overall management of the unit. General
supervision of employees and manage performance. Draft the overtime budget
of the unit and ensure approval. Collaborate with other Business Units on exam
related issues. Allocate resources (human, physical and financial) for the
administration of exams. Liaise with service providers regarding examination
related matters / material.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN)
Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW)
Ms Nelisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9321 (JN)
Ms Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW)
POST 17/241 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS & INTEGRITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022632
Directorate: Anti-corruption Ethics & Integrity Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) qualification in
Accounting/Auditing/Investigations/Ethics/Integrity Management) plus a
minimum of 3 years’ relevant working experience in the
Investigations/Auditing/Ethics/Anti-Corruption environment at a supervisory
level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7). Knowledge of Anti-
Corruption, Ethics and Integrity Management Practices, Forensic
Investigations/Auditing, Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing. General Recognised Accounting Principles, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act and Regulations, Policy development, South
African Constitution, NQF Act. Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities
Act, PAIA and Protected Disclosures’ Act. Good verbal and written
communication skills, Risk Management, Stakeholder management, People
and Conflict Management, Research and analytical, Computer skills- MS Office
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Presentation and Facilitation, Project
management, Change management, financial management, Statistical and
quantitative analysis. A valid South Africa driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implementation of anti-corruption, Ethics and Integrity Management strategies.
Assist in the compilation/ drafting of the departmental code of conduct and
related Ethics and Integrity Management Policies. Facilitate the combating,
monitoring and reporting of potential conflicts by officials while performing their
duties. Coordinate the promotion of sound ethics and integrity management.
Collate and consolidate documents to E-disclosure system to DPSA and
ensure compliance thereof. Maintenance of a gift register for all GDE officials.
Conduct the lead analysis and the preliminary investigations into allegations of
maladministration, fraud, and corruption. Draft project plans for special projects
associated with ethics, integrity, and anti-corruption. Monitor the
implementation of remedial actions emanating from the forensic investigations.
169
Development of anti-corruption, integrity, and ethics legislative frameworks
(policies), procedures and guidelines for good governance. Develop and
review risk management strategies and policies in line with the provincial and
national ethics and integrity management frameworks. Conduct research and
develop new methodologies, strategies, procedures manual and best practices
relating to anti-corruption, ethics, and integrity management. Provide advice on
all anti-corruption, integrity, and ethics enquiries internally and to relevant
stakeholders. Supervision and Development of Staff. Ensure that staff are
assessed in line with their Performance Management and Development
System (performance development plans, job descriptions and performance
agreement).
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mamogodi Makgolo Tel No: (011) 355 0261
POST 17/242 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE SERVICE POOL (X3 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022636
Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022639
Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022642
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF
Level6/7) in Public Administration/Public Management/ Office Management
/Transport management/Archives and Records Management plus a minimum
of 3 years relevant working experience at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7). Knowledge of Treasury Regulations and PFMA.
Building and office administration. Fleet management. Filling systems.
Administration procedures relating to specific working environment, including
norms and standards. Skills Planning and organizing. Client service.
Interpersonal relations. Problem solving. Conflict resolution. Computer literacy.
Report writing skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. A valid South Africa
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Check if the Registry is compliant to the National Archives and Records Service
Act, 1996. Ensure the distribution of mail between the District and Schools and
within the district. Ensure the collection of mail from the Post Office and the
distribution thereof. Management of the Courier Services at the District Office.
Create and manage database for disposal of records. Maintenance and
cleanliness of the building. Procurement of cleaning material. Inventory
management for cleaning material. Provide assistance on office needs for
resources. Management of bulk Printing. Maintenance of the outside
environment. Management of contracts, VIZ: Cleaning contract, Hygiene
services, Labour Saving Devices Wastepaper management. Manage the
delivery, distribution and storage of goods ordered. Manage and control of
consumable inventories. Liaise with units regarding other resource related to
office administration. Maintenance of infrastructure. Booking of venues. Ensure
Departmental Security Policy is implemented. Ensure access control for
officials, visitors and cars. Ensure the safeguard of officials and GDE property.
Ensure parking is allocated to officials and parking fees are paid as per the
policy. Management and control of Logbooks for both Sub cars and G-Fleet as
prescribed by Policy. Management of the Asset registers for both G-Fleet and
Subsidized vehicles. Monitor effective utilization on of both G-Fleet and
Subsidized vehicles. (PFMA compliance) Ensure GG Cars are sent for
maintenance. Ensure License disks are replaced. Submission of monthly
expenditure reports related to the mileage and fuel usage. Ensure the capturing
of expenditure for GG-vehicles take place on a monthly basis on the ELS-
system. Attendance of monthly meetings and provide feedback to the District
team. Monthly reporting based on start and end dates of subsidized vehicles
to avoid refunds after the officials have left the system. Monitor and manage
the allocated budget for the unit. Ensure that the goods and services are
procured for the unit and District auxiliary service needed. Ensure that the
budget is presented accurately and timeously on a monthly basis. Ensure that
the expenditure report aligns with the Operational Plan and Procurement Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE)
Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313 (TN)
Ms Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN)
170
POST 17/243 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: REFS/022648
Directorate: Labour Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognised three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) in
Labour Relations/ Human Resource Management/LLB/Labour Law plus a
minimum of 3 years relevant working experience in Labour Relations at a
supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7). Knowledge of
legislations which include but not limited to: LRA; Employment of Educators
Act; EEA; PSA; PSR; BCEA; SDA; COIDA; SASA. Knowledge of Collective
agreements concluded at PSCBC; GPSSBC and ELRC. Ability to work
independently as well as in a team. Good written and verbal communication
skills. A valid South Africa driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement policy regarding disciplinary enquiries. Facilitate the resolution of
dispute and grievances, as well as ensuring sound Employment Relations.
Promote efficient labour relations policies. Maintain labour peace within the
organization.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Milton Mashele Tel No: (011) 355 1506
POST 17/244 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (X3 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: THRS
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022617
Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/ 022626
Tshwane South District Ref No: REFS/022634
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF Level
6/7) in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or
Personnel Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus a minimum
of 3 years relevant working experience in human resource
management/administration at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent
to salary level 8/7). Experience in structuring of packages for the SMS / MMS
members will be an added advantage. Knowledge of SMS / MMS policies and
prescripts. Knowledge and understanding of current education and public
service legislations, regulations and policies. Excellent communication (verbal
and written) and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy in MS Excel and the
ability to be expert level on Microsoft Word usage, MS Access and MS Office
and Presentation. PERSAL reporting experience, Ability to be able to solve
complex salary related matters and the skill to perform manual salary related
calculations will be an advantage. Demonstrative ability to use human resource
information systems for planning, monitoring and reporting. Ability to work
under pressure, use of PERSAL and provide expert advisory support to
business. A valid South African driver's license.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision of all personnel administrative aspects on conditions of
service. Maintain policies and ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory
framework. Advise line managers and employees on conditions of service,
staffing practices and remuneration. Ensure conditions of services processes
and standard operating procedures are effective and efficient. Compile reports
and assist in the conducting of HR Audits. Ensure the implementation of
termination transactions on PERSAL and update records on PERSAL. Advise
finance on termination for recovery of assets. GDF (e-Gov) on debt not
captured on PERSAL. Submit completed exit questionnaire to notify
Performance Management Development on resignation for intervention.
Support members of the Senior management services, on all service
termination payments and benefits. Advice SMS/MMS members on how to
structure packages. Verify that PILIR register is prior to the processing of
termination. Train Office/District based employees on the completion of
documents and the termination policy for the following resignation, contract
expiry, retirement, death, ill Health retirement, early retirement, severance
package, exit interviews. Quality assures the correct capturing of termination
on PERSAL against outcome. Participate in the development of all
departmental Human Resource Transaction policies, strategies, procedures
and ensure the implementation and adherence by Departmental personnel
thereof. Participate in the development of HR Procedure manuals and
Facilitate HR administration activities or processes. Provide a Human
Resource advisory on conditions of services to all departmental personnel.
171
Ensure effective, efficient supervision of staff and management of resources.
Ensure human resources in the unit and maintain discipline and the provision
of equipment required by personnel for achievement of outputs in their
respective Job Descriptions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9193 (SW)
Ms Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN)
Mr Thabiso Mphosi Tel No: (012) 401 6434 (TS)
POST 17/245 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/022645
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni North District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF
Level6/7) in Financial Management/ Accounting/Public Finance/ Cost and
Management plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working experience in the
financial management environment at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge of PFMA, preferential procurement
policy framework, Treasury Regulations, public sector procurement and Supply
Chain Management. Knowledge of BAS (Basic Accounting System) &
PERSAL. Excellent communication skills. Computer literacy in Excel, Access,
Word and PowerPoint. Valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Provide financial administration and procurement administration to the district
office and schools. Maintain all the accounting records of the district. Assist
with clearing of accounts. Assist in the preparation and administration of district
budget allocation process. Budget forecasting and reporting. Prepare weekly
Cash flow inputs (funds requisitioning). Prepare monthly and quarterly reports
for the district. Assist in with the audit process and clearing of all audit queries.
Report in writing any unauthorized, irregular or fruitless and wasteful
expenditure. Implement and maintain asset management policies of the
department. Co-ordination of Risk management processes. Ensure
compliance with PFMA and Treasury Regulations and Accounting principles
and Departmental policies, Financial Delegations and also through applicable
compliance certificates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746 8190
POST 17/246 : ASSITANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING (X2 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Transversal Human Resource Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022649
Ekurhuleni South District Ref No: REFS/022652
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) in
Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus 3 years’ experience
in the HRP working environment at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge of Education Acts. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Knowledge of applicable resolutions. National and provincial
policy frameworks. Understanding transformation and capacity building
processes. Basic Knowledge of PERSAL. PFMA. Computer literacy. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Report writing. Strong leadership skills
and qualities. Listening skills. Conflict management. Negotiation skills. Time
Management. Basic Financial Skills. Project management and Project leader
skills. Good inter-personal relations skills. Problem solving skills. Presentation
skills. Self-disciplined and able to work under pressure with minimum
supervision. Licensed Driver. People management and Supervisory skills.
Policy Development and research skills. Facilitation skills. Communicate to
District Head, Senior Managers in the Department, National and Provincial
Education Departments, Academic Institutions. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of post provisioning for Public Ordinary and Special
schools (PS and Educators). Ensure the receipt and verification of post
establishment for Special Schools, Ordinary Schools and extraordinary posts.
Ensure that post establishments are correctly distributed to all stakeholders.
Provide support in issuing of Annual Post Establishments, Growth Posts, Extra
Ordinary posts and Grading of schools. Ensure the implementation of GDE
Medium Term HR Plan. Monitor utilization of all posts. Placement of personnel
172
i.e. Additional and Funza Lushaka. Conversion of temporary staff. Participate
in the analysis and planning of the HR Requirements for the Department.
Participate in the development of HR Policies based on gaps identified in the
district. Participate in the development of Departmental Recruitment Strategy
and ensure the implementation thereof. Provide inputs on the development of
the recruitment strategy. Identify vacant posts in the Institutions and / District
Offices. Receive and verify GDE 79 / HR1 / GDE 01 / Z83.Capture and submit
GDE 79 / HR1 for publication. Receive and distribute vacancy list to institutions
and Sub directorates. Oversee the response handling process. Process
recommendations. Verify qualifications and ensure they are captured. Ensure
the implementation of Organizational Development processes in the district.
Coordinate all the processes with regards to the realignment of the structure in
the district (e.g. placements, transfers, implementation of the approved
structure, etc.). Participate in the evaluation of the implemented HR Strategies
in the District and monitor thereof. Ensure the provision administrative support
services for the Unit. Ensure all personnel administration verifications are done
on PERSAL. Ensure safekeeping of all documentation in the office in line with
relevant legislation and policies. Collate and compile of reports e.g. progress
reports, monthly reports, etc. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rejoice Manamela Tel No: (012) 543 4312 (TN)
MS Ellen Raphoto Tel No: (011) 389 6077(ES)
POST 17/247 : PHYSICAL RESOURCE PLANNER REF NO: REFS/022268
Sub-Directorate: Infrastructure Planning and Property Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Degree (NQF Level 7) qualification in Town
Planning, Architecture or Architectural Technology plus minimum of three
years appropriate experience after qualifications has been obtained. Valid
Drivers’ License. Computer literate. Knowledge: Understanding of the South
African Schools Act of 1996, Regulations Relating to Minimum Uniform Norms
and Standards for Public School Infrastructure of 2013, Spatial Planning
Systems and Norms of government, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, including the Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement Management (FIDPM), Government Immovable Asset
Management Act (GIAMA) of 2007, Occupational Health and Safety Act of
1993. Skills: Ability to implement the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System, ability to manage National Education Infrastructure
Management System (NEIMS) and other education infrastructure related
planning data, GIS and related Facilities Management systems, ability to apply
the education priorities in terms the physical resource planning framework,
ability to prepare and implement risk mitigation strategies, ability to
communicate and manage stakeholders.
DUTIES : Provide physical resources planning inputs to the Infrastructure Asset
Management Plan and budget. Conduct needs assessments of schools’
infrastructure to update the NEIMS from an education perspective.
Commissioning of schools relating to school furniture and equipment.
Communication and consultation with schools on infrastructure matters.
Establishment of stakeholder forums.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 17/248 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DISTRICT IT SUPPORT REF NO: REFS/022285
Directorate: IT and Service Management
SALARY R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Information Technology/Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a
minimum of 3 years’ relevant working experience in IT technical support.
Knowledge of ITSM service desk tool, ITSM/ ITIL processes at a supervisory
level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge of call
management and call handling tools. Good IT technical knowledge and IT
security, problem solving and call management skills. Excellent Client
orientation, interpersonal and customer service skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills, ability to work under pressure. Excellent report writing
and analysis skills. Ability to manage, motivate and be part of a team. Ability to
173
manage, adapt and balance staffing and duties to meet Service desk demands.
Ability to work with cross functional teams and supervisors within technical
environment. Knowledge of legislative frameworks within the Public Sector will
be an added advantage. A+/ N+/, ITIL or related certificates will be
advantageous. A valid South Afrikan Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Maintain and monitor ITSM system/Incident management in Districts, logged
calls management. Supervise and ensure maintenance of server room
infrastructure, manage networks security and computer systems (patch
management). Ensure efficient IT technical support and call logging to all GDE
userbase. Provide support on network connectivity/WAN and projects. Report
and follow up on unresolved and delayed incidents and requests to ensure
service delivery target are met. Implement and ensure 3rd party relations and
processes are adhered to from the GDE IT service desk, Ensure the adherence
and implementation of relevant GDE policies. Minimize service disruptions by
operating, supporting, and maintaining day to day operational issues of
technical support to ensure a stable and efficient environment. Provide office
administration support within the business unit. Write reports on technical
support within District office on Weekly, Monthly, quarterly, and ad hoc basis.
Build a cohesive technical support team through coaching and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Eva Motshwaedi Tel No: (011) 843 6724
POST 17/249 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT SERVICE DESK REF NO: REFS/022641
Directorate: IT and Service Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Information Technology/Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a
minimum of 3 years’ relevant working experience in an IT service desk or IT
technical environment. Knowledge of ITSM service desk tool, service desk and
ITSM/ ITIL processes at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary
level 8/7. Knowledge of call management and call handling tools. Good IT
technical knowledge, problem solving and call management skills. Excellent
Client orientation, interpersonal and customer service skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills, ability to work under pressure. Excellent report
writing and analysis skills. Ability to manage, motivate and be part of a team.
Ability to manage, adapt and balance staffing and duties to meet Service desk
demands. Ability to work with cross functional teams and supervisors on all IT
incident and request process matters. Understanding the position of the IT
Service desk within the organization. Knowledge of legislative frameworks
within the Public Sector will be an added advantage. A+/ N+/ Service desk, ITIL
or related certificates will be advantageous. A valid South Africa Driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Ensure the GDE IT Service Desk provides efficient first line IT technical support
and call logging to all GDE corporate and GDE school users. Ensure the GDE
IT Service desk team adheres to the GDE IT Incident Management processes
and is recorded and managed via the ITSM tool. Report and follow up on
unresolved and delayed incidents and requests to ensure service delivery
target are met. Implement and ensure 3rd party relations and processes are
adhered to from the GDE IT service desk, Ensure the adherence and
implementation of relevant GDE policies. Minimize service disruptions by
operating, supporting, and maintaining day to day operational issues of the
Service desk to ensure a stable and efficient environment. Provide office
administration support within the business unit. Write reports on service desk
Stats on Weekly, Monthly, quarterly, and ad hoc basis. Build a cohesive service
desk team through coaching and development. Monitor and manage services
delivered by the IT service desk to ensure continual service improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Eva Motshwaedi Tel No: (011) 843 6724
POST 17/250 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: REFS/022646
Directorate: Internal Control and Compliance
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Auditing/Accounting/ Internal Audit/ Risk Management plus a minimum
174
of 3 years’ experience in internal control/audit/accounting and Risk
management environment at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to
salary level 8/7. Experience in internal and external audit projects will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of COSO Framework, Public Finance
Management Act, Public Audit Act, National Treasury Regulations, Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles and other relevant legislation. Ability to provide
technical guidance when required. Financial analysis skills; Good project
management skills; Document examination and electronic data analysis skills;
Excellent communication (written and verbal) skills. Ability to work with all
levels of management and across business units of the department. Good
problem-solving skills. Self-starter and ability to work individually and/or in a
team. A valid driver’s license. Institute of Internal Auditors SA (IIASA), The
South African Institute of Professional Accountants (SAIPA) or South African
Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) membership or any other
professional body will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate and conduct internal control reviews. Facilitate and perform the in-
detail testing of key internal controls in the department and prepare a quarterly
internal control dashboard. Conduct and supervise independent and objective
assessments/reviews of internal controls, financial results, departmental
processes, and adherence to compliance requirements and identify areas of
weaknesses. Coordinate and conduct compliance reviews controls. Compile
and maintain the compliance universe. Conduct and supervise independent
and objective assessments to establish compliance to requirements to laws
and regulations relevant to GDE and the Public Sector, policies and
procedures. Monitor compliance with all financial laws and regulations,
policies, and procedures. Compile and maintain incident register for all
incidents of non-compliance identified incident. Ensure incidents of irregularity
identified and financial misconducts are referred to Ethics, Fraud, and
Investigation unit for investigation. Coordinate internal and external audits and
liaise with the AGSA, GAS, GPT and other stakeholders. Coordinate and
monitor internal and external audit processes within the department.
Coordinate IT asset Loss Control in the department. Ensure and participate in
the development and maintenance of policies and procedures on IT asset
losses. Monitor compliance against the Asset Loss policy and report on areas
of non-compliance. Manage and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Unity Ramasobane Tel No: (011) 355 0268
POST 17/251 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE AND PROCUREMENT REF NO:
REFS/022647
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane North District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) qualification in Finance / Supply Chain Management / Economics /
Business / Purchasing/Logistics or three-year related qualification plus a
minimum of 3 years’ experience in SCM at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge and experience of SAP, BAS, PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, provisioning procedures and other legislative
frameworks applicable to the Public Sector will be a strong recommendation.
Leadership, management, conflict resolution and good communication skills
(written & verbal). Must have computer literacy and the ability to work under
pressure. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implementation of financial and procurement policies and procedures. Enquiry
office is operating efficiently. Manage/ oversee the capturing of RLS01 on
either P. CARD/SRM systems. Ensure that Vendor are registered on EIS
System and vendor information forms are copied, recorded, and forwarded to
GDF for registration. Receipt of requisitions (RLS01’s) and processing thereof.
Capturing of GRVs RLS02 on SRM within 24 hours and payment within 30
days. Follow up on outstanding payments for service providers. Clear web-
cycle entries weekly. Efficient operations i.e. collection of payrolls – payslips
distributed and returned within 7 working days. Proper record keeping with
regards to payroll administration. Liaise with schools and units regarding
payroll issues. Distribution of IRP5s. Compare accuracy of payroll with
exception report and liaise with THRS with reference to the exception report.
Non-compliance letters issued for return of payrolls. Report to HO on
completeness of payroll return and exception report. Implementation of petty
175
cash policies and procedures. Cashier’s office operates efficiently, and petty
cash is replenished when needed. Monitor and bank revenue as and when
needed. Function as team leader by supervising tasks and responsibilities of
sub-ordinates. Provide training of staff on procedures and processes.
Performance management is done, and poor performance is identified and
addressed. Office administration matters and effective, efficient record
keeping. Provide monthly management reports. Attend management
meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (011) 355 0268
POST 17/252 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLICATIONS REF NO: REFS/022650
Directorate: External Communication and Media Liaison
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Communication/ Journalism/ Public Relations plus 3 years’ experience
within Communications environment at a supervisory level and or at a post
equivalent to salary level 8/7. 2 years’ experience in Journalism will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations.
Communication policies and practices and Communication theories. Computer
literacy, Communication Skills, Change management, Project Management,
Good Interpersonal relations, Presentation and Policy development and
research skills. A valid South African Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Provide Production of Content for Publication (Content Development),
Coordinate design/ layout, styles of publications. Develop, update and source
photographic content for intranet/ internal platforms. Coordinate proofreading
and editing of content for all Publications. Monitor and check spelling,
punctuation, grammar, facts as well as advise on choice of words used for clear
intended message. Coordinate the drafting of well-constructed newsletters,
banners and posters. Coordinate printing and distribution of Departmental
Publications. Ensure that departmental strategic publications are in line with
Government Communications and Information Systems (GCIS) editorial
guidelines. Facilitate the development and design of internal and external
online departmental publications. Develop Communication and Publication
policies, procedures and guidelines for interactive media and multimedia
contents. Conduct Visuals research on acts, policies, prescripts, frameworks,
procedures manuals and best practices. Supervise and develop Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jeffrey Mmope Tel No: (011) 355 0972
POST 17/253 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT AND NUTRITION REF NO:
REFS/022662
Sub-Directorate: Education Support
Section: Transport and Nutrition
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng East District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF
Level6/7) in Public Administration/Public Management/ Transport
Management/ Transport Economics/Food and Nutrition plus a minimum of 3
years relevant working experience within School Nutrition and Leaner
Transport environment at a supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to
salary level 8/7). Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, report
writing Employment of Educator’s Act, PFMA, SASA and Gazette 31337 as
amended. Knowledge of relevant Labour Relations Act and relevant legislation
pertaining to Exams and Assessments Processes. Ability to maintain good
working relationships. Good Communication Skills, Computer literacy,
Planning and Organising skills, Analytical skills, Conflict Management skills,
Report writing skills, Good Interpersonal relations, Problem Solving,
Supervisory Skills, Facilitation and Presentation skills. A valid South African
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision of National School Nutrition Programmes (NSNP). Ensure
the development of school nutrition menu planning procedures and inventory
accountability. Ensure the provision of nutrition education with various
stakeholders to promote healthy eating and habits and healthy lifestyle to
schools and communities. Ensure provision of School Nutrition and Learner
Transport administrative services. Ensure that schools comply with the
176
development of and maintenance of cycle menus and production records in
accordance with all departmental regulations and mandated. Enforce hygienic
and food safety standards in line with School Occupational Health and Safety
to improve the quality of nutrition services provide. Ensure that service
providers (bus operators) comply with the relevant transport statutory
requirements in accordance with all National and Provincial regulations and
mandates. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of National School
Nutrition and Learner Transport Grant Programmes. Ensure compliance with
the reporting requirement and guidelines of the Nation School Nutrition and
Learner Transport Programmes. Ensure provisioning of National Scholar
Transport Programme (NSTP). Ensure Learner Transport programme is
implemented at schools according to the set objectives. Facilitate the provision
of various bus/ transport routes for Learners qualifying for the Scholar
Transport programme. Development and implementation of School Nutrition
and Learner Transport policies, procedures and guidelines. Ensure the
implementation of School Nutrition and Learner Transport provincial and
departmental framework. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE)
POST 17/254 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER MR5 REF NO: REFS/022623
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R464 634 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in LLB plus minimum of 8 years post-qualification legal
experience. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service legislative framework and
Education laws, as well as drafting and interpretation of legislation and
Contracts. Knowledge of South African Constitutional Law is imperative. The
ability to work long hours and under pressure. A valid South African Driver’s
License. Skills: Interpretation of statute skills, research skills, legislative
drafting and formulation skills. Good verbal and legal writing skills. Good
communication (both written and verbal) as well as interpersonal skills. Well-
developed analytical skills.
DUTIES : Research the legal content of Legislation, civil jurisprudence and provide
reports. Conduct research on the constitutionality and legality of the legislative
frameworks applicable to the Department. Attend to litigation on behalf of the
Department. Attend to drafting of Provincial Laws, Regulations, contracts,
statutory appeals and vetting of circulars. Provide legal advisory services to the
Department. Ensure compliance with legislation. Monitor reviews of the law.
Attend to queries regarding the departmental policies. Communicate with
relevant stakeholders on matters relating to education attend to assigned
duties from the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Agnes Muthelo Tel No: (011) 355 1182
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at:
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za site or https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/.
Z83 and updated CV must be attached.
CLOSING DATE : 09 June 2025 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The Completed and signed form should be
accompanied by a recently updated CV only specifying all experience
indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as indicating three reference
persons with the following information: name and contact number(s), email
address and an indication of the capacity in which the reference is known to
the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the interview date following communication from HR.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal
record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification, and employment
verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject to a positive
security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
177
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be subjected to a
security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo a Competency
Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
positions will be required to undergo two (2) technical tests (technical exercise
that intends to test the relevant technical elements of the job and the other
Integrity (ethical) Conduct Assessment). Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT)
reserves the right to utilise practical exercises / tests for non-SMS positions
and during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted will be
informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s).
To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please
click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course please visit the
NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za GPT also reserves the right to cancel the
filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83
which is effective as of 01 January 2021.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/255 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION (PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP) REF NO: REFS/022600
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in
Finance/ Commerce/ Economics/ Built Environment/ Law/ Public
Management. 3-5 years’ experience at Junior Management level in PPP’s
Infrastructure/ Law/ Commerce/ Project Management.
DUTIES : To manage the implementation of Municipal and Provincial Public Private
Partnership (PPP) infrastructure projects. Monitor compliance with relevant
regulations governing Public Private Partnership (PPP)'s. Provide technical
support and advice for PPP Infrastructure projects. Analyse restructuring
projects and feasibility studies for non-core functional services. Facilitate the
implementation of PPP infrastructure projects. Identify and assess potential
PPP infrastructure projects. Provide support to conventional and other
infrastructure initiatives. Provide support to management on Ad-hoc related
projects and tasks. Render the following additional support to the Directorate:
Project and administrative support, budget and procurement support, risk
management, monitoring and evaluation, supervisory and management of staff
(where applicable)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 17/256 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER SUPER USER: SAP ERP PROCESS AND
SYSTEM SUPPORT REF NO: REFS/022601 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant three-year tertiary qualification, e.g., National Diploma/ Degree (NQF
level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Information Technology/ Financial
Information Management Systems. 2-3 years’ experience in (SAP MM, and
SRM) systems, Solid experience in designing and developing training tools i.e.,
simulation tools, assessment tools, and learning management systems.
Knowledge of SAP and SRM. Understanding of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and relevant legislations.
DUTIES : Log and close calls on the ITSM call logging platform upon query resolution.
Provide timely system support for all GPG Departments and Trading entities
end-users across various applications. Managing incoming requests and
incidents efficiently. Resolve customer queries within one day and escalate
technical issues as needed. Provide Departments with monthly PO status
reports. Handle purchase order inquiries and monitor outstanding open POs.
Manage user Access Management cycle in the procurement system including
password resets and verify users' line managers in GRC. Assist users in
creating their profiles on SAP MM and SRM and making sure that the correct
178
profile is assigned. Update access forms if needed and forward completed
forms to e-Gov SAP HR for the correct line manager to be updated. Escalate
user profile terminations to SAP.AUTHS. Provide transversal system training
to all Users of SAP MM and SRM. Assist with creating scheduled users for
online or MS Teams training and support them during training. Assist users in
navigating the correct training on the online system. Prepare training materials
for users. Update training manuals after the enhancement of the systems.
Support Project Management administration and automation of Transversal
systems including procurement project rollouts and inventory management
activities. Assist in enhancing GRC self-service functions for ESS users.
Participate in testing new system enhancements and ensuring completion and
submission of test scripts. Additionally, contribute to the automation of RLSOI
and Smart forms to all GPG departments and Trading entities that use SAP
and SRM for the Procure to Pay processes
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 17/257 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM REF NO: REFS/022602
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma or Degree (As recognised
by SAQA) in Information Technology/Financial Information Management
Systems/ Financial management or Accounting. 2-3 years’ experience in
system support and support processes. Knowledge of public sector financial
systems. (BAS, PERSAL, SAP). Proven ability to understand and use the
functionality of the system. Customer care experience. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the financial administration in the public sector. Advanced
experience in the use of the following applications: MS Excel, MS PowerPoint,
MS Word, MS Access, MS Project, SAP Certification Additional, Experience in
the supervision of subordinates will be advantageous (preferred).
DUTIES : Bas System. Render a support service to all provincial BAS users. Monitor
compliance and enforcement of prescribed legislation, policies and guidelines
relating to all BAS processes. Perform BAS System Controller functions.
Building capacity of BAS users. Building capacity of BAS users. SAP System.
Render a support service to all provincial Departments on SAP R3. Building
capacity of SAP system-end users. Co-ordinate, implement and maintain SAP
at sites. PERSAL System – Finance. Render advisory and support services to
all GPG Departments on PERSAL System. Monitor compliance and
enforcement of prescribed legislation, policies and guidelines relating to all
PERSAL processes. Building capacity of PERSAL system-end users. Perform
PERSAL System Controller functions. Render advisory and support services
to all GPG Departments on Business Intelligence Systems and all In-house
developed systems. Scoa Maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
179
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application quoting the reference number of the post you are
applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw the
advertisement to The Director: Human Resource Management Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X9142, Pietermaritzburg, 3200, for attention Mrs ZJ
Hlongwane. Alternatively, applications can be delivered to 191 Prince Alfred
Street, Pietermaritzburg or online via
kznpw.jobs.headoffice@kznworks.gov.za. Applicants are encouraged to apply
for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit their Z83 and CV online
and directly to the email addresses indicated above in respect of the different
centres where the posts exist.
CLOSING DATE : 13 June 2025
NOTE : Directions To Candidates Note to applicants: The Provincial Administration of
KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applications must
be submitted individually on the prescribed new approved Z83 form, the form
is available from the website www.kznworks.gov.za or can be obtainable from
any Public Service department, and must be accompanied by a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of supporting documents need not
accompany your application and CV, as these will be requested from
shortlisted candidates only. Faxed or electronic copies will not be considered.
Candidates are urged to view the guidelines available to all prospective
candidates applying for vacant position on the departmental website before
completing applications for posts. Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to Candidates are also advised not to send
their applications through registered mail, as the Department will not take
responsibility for non-collection thereof. It is the applicants’ responsibility to
have foreign qualifications assessment for equivalent by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned instructions will be disqualified. Please note that the
Department reserves the right not to fill the post. Recommended candidate’s
personal information will be subject to vetting prior to an offer of appointment
being made. Candidates are expected to be available on the date set for the
interviews or they may be disqualified. Should you not have been contacted by
this office within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, kindly
consider your application being unsuccessful. Please note that further
communication shall be restricted to those candidates who will have been
shortlisted. The appointed candidate shall be required to sign a performance
agreement. Please note that reference checks and/or confirmation of
employment will be done with the current employer and candidates are advised
to include references from the current employment to facilitate this. The filling
of this post will be guided by the Department’s Employment Equity targets.
Please note that requests for higher salaries will not be entertained for the
advertised posts, however it may only be considered for posts falling within the
Occupational Specific Dispensation (OSD) subject to the existing provisions.
Candidates applying for advertised posts in the Department, will be deemed to
have granted consent to their personal information being used to determine
suitability in terms of the POPIA Act, 4 of 2013. Please note that employment
verifications shall be undertaken for all experience which has been recognized
for shortlisting purposes, experience in the public service will need to be
supported with a signed job description and PERSAL service record history
and experience from the private sector needs to be supported by a certificate
of service confirming the name of company, position held, periods of
employment and duties performed. Experience that cannot be verified will
result in the applicant being disqualified.
180
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/258 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: HO/CFO/052025
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive), to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognised NQF level 7 post qualification in Financial or
Business Management/ Administration plus 5 years relevant experience at a
senior management level in commercial finance/ operational environment.
Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation
software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence and an appropriate
and applicable SMS Pre-entry (Nyukela) Certificate to be submitted prior to
appointment.
DUTIES : Develop implement and maintain appropriate mechanisms to timeously
respond to the changing needs for financial information, the interpretation
thereof and the rendering of technical advice to the Accounting Officer ensuring
that the financial resources and assets of the Department are utilized
effectively and economically to realise the objectives of the Annual
Performance Plan. Manage the Supply Chain Management systems of the
Department ensuring good governance arrangements and value for money for
good and services. Manage construction procurement services and Internal
Control. Manage the development and implementation of policies. Manage the
resources. Skills, Training and Competencies: Understanding of all relevant
prescripts. Interpretation and application of policies /legislations. Project
Management skills. Financial Management skills. Strategic Planning and
coordination skills. People management and empowerment skills. Analytical,
creative and innovative thinking skills
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Govender (Acting Head of Department) Tel No: (033) 355 5533
NOTE : NB. Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
POST 17/259 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: HO/D/HRM&D/052025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive), to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognised NQF level 7 qualification in Human Resource
management plus 5 years relevant experience at a senior or middle managerial
level within a human resource environment. Proficiency in relevant word
processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages. Possession of
a valid drivers license and an appropriate and applicable SMS Pre-entry
(Nyukela) Certificate to be submitted prior to appointment.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of Human Resource Administration services. Manage
Employee Health and Wellness programmes. Manage Labour Relations.
Manage Human Resource Utilisation and Capacity Building. Manage the
development and implementation of policies. Manage the resources of the
Directorate. Skills, Training and Competencies: Understanding of all relevant
prescripts. Interpretation and application of policies /legislations. Project
Management skills. Financial Management skills. Strategic Planning and
coordination skills. People management and empowerment skills. Analytical,
creative and innovative thinking skills
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Govender (Acting Head of Department) Tel No: (033) 355 5533
NOTE : NB. Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also
181
be submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site
(eservices.gov.za).
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application z83 form,
available from any Public Service Department and can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies and a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. As per
the DPSA directive applicants must fill in all sections of the z83, no incomplete
Z83 forms will be accepted. The Z83 must be accompanied by a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only Provisionally shortlisted applicants will
be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
subjected security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are not collected
from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Should you not hear from the
Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is
not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment
processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates.
Preferences: African Males, African Females and people with disabilities who
meet the requirements. Applications that do not comply with all these
instructions will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/260 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK AND ADVISORY SERVICES (CLUSTERS) REF
NO: KZNPT 25/23
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (a remuneration package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 or higher qualification with Financial Accounting as major subject,
Membership of the Institute of Risk Management of South Africa (IRMSA). A
minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior management level in accounting
environment. Valid Driver’s license. People with disabilities without valid
driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to meet work related travel
obligations. Skills, Knowledge, And Competencies: PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Accounting Principles. Analytical Organizing Presentation/report
writing. Numeracy Advanced Excel Communication Planning Problem solving
Project Management.
DUTIES : Monitor, enforce and report on the effective implementation of the PFMA,
Treasury regulations and Risk Management Framework to ensure compliance.
Provide support and capacity building to provincial departments and public
entities. Develop financial systems policies, procedure manuals and best
practices. Develop and maintain the risk register within the departments.
Manage the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Malapane Tel No: (033) 897 4417
FOR ATTENTION : Ms LM Chauque
POST 17/261 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BAS: REF NO: KZNPT 25/23
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (a remuneration package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3year National Diploma NQF Level 6 or higher in Accounting or Financial
Information Systems. A minimum of 3-years junior management experience in
a government financial systems environment. Valid Driver’s license. People
with disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the
department to meet work related travel obligations. skills, knowledge, and
competencies: Working knowledge of Financial Systems such as HARDCAT,
BAS etc. and relevant prescripts, National Treasury circulars, Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations, Knowledge of Financial Regulations, Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act, Basic knowledge of the integrated systems
used by Departments in the Province, Knowledge of project management
methodologies, Knowledge of Information Security, Regulation of Interception
of Communications and Provision, Communication-related information Act
182
(Information Act). Project management skills, Good inter-personal relations
skills, Problem solving skills, Risk management skills, change management
skills, Presentation skills, Policy analysis and development, Self-disciplined
and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision, People
management, Ability to interpret written requirements and technical
specification documents. Ability to work well within a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision and guidance of functional support rendered to
Provincial financial systems users. Facilitate the provision of financial systems
training. Develop financial systems policies, procedure manuals and best
practices. Facilitate and conduct information sessions on financial systems.
Manage resources of the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mqadi Tel No: (033) 897 4585
FOR ATTENTION : Ms Z Ndlela
183
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/262 : DIRECTOR: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/130
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in a health related field or
equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Registration with a recognized
Health Professional Council (2024). At least five (5) years’ relevant experience
in middle / senior managerial level services preferably in health-related field,
as stipulated in the Directive on Human Resources Management and
Development for Public Service Professionalization (DPSA). An Honors or
Master’s degree will be an added advantage. Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
entry Programme Certificate (submitted prior to appointment). Knowledge and
understanding of the District Health System, including Primary Health Care
support, District hospitals and Community Based Health Services. Experience
in accounting to communities e.g. Health committees and Hospital Boards.
Knowledge and experience on district health planning, district health
expenditure reviews and annual performance plans. Knowledge and
experience on financial and human resource management applicable to the
Public Service. Proven experience in the provision and management of health
services. Knowledge and understanding of the Department of Health
184
Mpumalanga Comprehensive Service Plan. Verbal and written communication
skills. Driver’s license. Skills: Communication skills. Problem solving skills.
Decision making skills. Presentation skills. Good human relation and analytic
skills. Be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Support the district in the implementation of the full package of district health
services (including district hospitals and sub-acute services) within the
province, in line with the Departmental Comprehensive Service Plan. Support
the district in the implementation of health programmes within the province.
Ensure that quality of care is maintained and improved in the three districts.
Responsible as budget holder and financial manager for the PHC Directorate.
Responsible for human resource management in the Programme. Co-ordinate
the rendering of professional support services (including information
management) within the three districts. Manage key partnerships within the
province, especially with the communities, local government, universities and
non-profit organizations (NGO’s). Advise the department on legislation,
regulations and collective agreements and implement a talent management
model that attracts and retains productive teams. Serve as a member of the
Senior Management Team. Actively contribute to the formulation and
implementation of the departmental strategic plan. Communicate reports and
integrate the outputs of the directorate, internally in the department and
externally with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/263 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/131
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration / Management. At least five (5) years’ relevant experience at a
middle / senior managerial level. Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme Certificate (submitted prior to appointment). Valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge, skills and competencies: Knowledge of the Constitution of South
Africa, Public Service Act, 1994 as amended, Public Service Regulations, 2016
as amended, Skills Development Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act and any
other relevant prescripts. Change management. Good negotiating, decision
making, interpersonal and time management skills. Computer literacy. Conflict
management, client orientation and customer focus. A pro-active thinker with
excellent decision making skills. Ability to communicate and implement
strategic objectives within an overall provincial framework. Verbal and written
communication skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To provide corporate service in the district and health facilities. Manage and
render human resource management and development. Render Auxiliary
Services. Manage and coordinate gender and transformation programmes.
Manage and coordinate the provision of government information and
communication technology services. Manage the provision of legal services.
Manage the security services. Manage the provision of communication
services. Manage and coordinate transformation and transversal projects.
Coordinate the delivery of laundry support services. Manage the provision of
records and logistical services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/264 : DIRECTOR: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/132
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in a health related field or
equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Registration with a recognized
Health Professional Council (2024). At least five (5) years’ relevant experience
185
in middle / senior managerial level services preferably in health-related field,
as stipulated in the Directive on Human Resources Management and
Development for Public Service Professionalization (DPSA). An Honors or
Master’s degree will be an added advantage. Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
entry Programme Certificate (submitted prior to appointment). Knowledge and
understanding of the District Health System, including Primary Health Care
support, District hospitals and Community Based Health Services. Experience
in accounting to communities e.g. Health committees and Hospital Boards.
Knowledge and experience on district health planning, district health
expenditure reviews and annual performance plans. Knowledge and
experience on financial and human resource management applicable to the
Public Service. Proven experience in the provision and management of health
services. Knowledge and understanding of the Department of Health
Mpumalanga Comprehensive Service Plan. Verbal and written communication
skills. Driver’s license. Skills: Communication skills. Problem solving skills.
Decision making skills. Presentation skills. Good human relation and analytic
skills. Be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Support the district in the implementation of the full package of district health
services (including district hospitals and sub-acute services) within the
province, in line with the Departmental Comprehensive Service Plan. Support
the district in the implementation of health programmes within the province.
Ensure that quality of care is maintained and improved in the three districts.
Responsible as budget holder and financial manager for the PHC Directorate.
Responsible for human resource management in the Programme. Co-ordinate
the rendering of professional support services (including information
management) within the three districts. Manage key partnerships within the
province, especially with the communities, local government, universities and
non-profit organizations (NGO’s). Advise the department on legislation,
regulations and collective agreements and implement a talent management
model that attracts and retains productive teams. Serve as a member of the
Senior Management Team. Actively contribute to the formulation and
implementation of the departmental strategic plan. Communicate reports and
integrate the outputs of the directorate, internally in the department and
externally with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/265 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGETING MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/133
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus an undergraduate
relevant qualification (NQF Level 7) in Finance / Financial Management /
Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Financial Management at management level (ASD) or
relevant position. Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word, PowerPoint and MS
Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising. Problem solving and
decision making. Coordination. Project management. People management
and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and customer focus.
Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Financial Management and Municipal
Revenue Management. Comprehensive knowledge and, the Division of
Revenue Act (DoRA), the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Policy
Development. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To manage and facilitate budgeting processes. Facilitate and manage financial
planning and budgeting processes. Compile budget estimates. Align budgets
with strategic and annual performance plans. Provide advice on budget-related
matters. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget. Confirm availability of
funds before goods and services are procured. Ensure correct SCOA
allocations are used on payment packs. Checking monthly document control
reports. Ensure all processed documents are audit compliant. Costing
186
operational budget requirements needs of Districts within actual expenditure
trend. Balancing of final budget allocation on BAS. Request budget /
expenditure input to quarterly erroneous allocations and authorize journal
entries. Alert District Manager’s to over and under expenditure trends. Monthly
checking of Regional Office control reports. Training of incorrect allocation
captured by sub offices. Monitoring of key cost drivers. Complete accurate and
updated report as per prescribed time frames. Provide training to finance
functionaries in the districts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/266 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/134
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience of
which three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory / managerial (Level
7/8) within Human Resource Management Environment. Extensive knowledge
of the PERSAL system and at least a minimum of four (4) PERSAL courses is
an inherent requirement. A good understanding and functional knowledge of
the relevant public service regulatory framework. Knowledge of HR policies,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Condition of Employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Labour Relations Act, Pension Case
Management, COIDA, IOD, OHS Act, PFMA and Establishment. Good
interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer
literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Facilitate
HR Personnel Provisioning matters. Co-ordinate and monitor appointment
process. Render administrative functions including the following: recruitment
and selection of staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions, probationary periods, etc). Manage conditions of
services and benefits: leave, leave gratuities, pensions, termination of services,
procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health, housing allowance, overtime,
translations and writing reports etc.). Administer and monitor transfers and
adjustments of employees. Administer compliance of Internal Controls. Provide
support to the auditing process. Give input in the development of strategic,
business and procurement plans. Consolidate monthly and quarterly reports.
Ensure development of staff training needs. Facilitate financial and human
resources. Employees should be able to interpret and understand regulatory
framework relating to employee benefits including the OSD. Coordinate
performance management system, address human resource administration
enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human resource
management practices, inform, guide, and advise the personnel on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Provide
support to Corporate Manager and the Chief Executive Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/267 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/25/135
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
187
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience of
which three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory / managerial (Level
7/8) within Human Resource Management Environment. Extensive knowledge
of the PERSAL system and at least a minimum of four (4) PERSAL courses is
an inherent requirement. A good understanding and functional knowledge of
the relevant public service regulatory framework. Knowledge of HR policies,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Condition of Employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Labour Relations Act, Pension Case
Management, COIDA, IOD, OHS Act, PFMA and Establishment. Good
interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer
literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Facilitate
HR Personnel Provisioning matters. Co-ordinate and monitor appointment
process. Render administrative functions including the following: recruitment
and selection of staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions, probationary periods, etc). Manage conditions of
services and benefits: leave, leave gratuities, pensions, termination of services,
procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health, housing allowance, overtime,
translations and writing reports etc.). Administer and monitor transfers and
adjustments of employees. Administer compliance of Internal Controls. Provide
support to the auditing process. Give input in the development of strategic,
business and procurement plans. Consolidate monthly and quarterly reports.
Ensure development of staff training needs. Facilitate financial and human
resources. Employees should be able to interpret and understand regulatory
framework relating to employee benefits including the OSD. Coordinate
performance management system, address human resource administration
enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human resource
management practices, inform, guide, and advise the personnel on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Provide
support to Corporate Manager and the Chief Executive Officer
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/268 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/25/136
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Matikwana Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
188
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
Performance management system, address human resource administration
enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human resource
management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human resource
administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of human
resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of reports on
human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel
No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No: (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa
Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766
3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No:
(013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
189
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Please forward the applications for the post quoting the relevant reference
number to: Senior Manager, Human Resources Administration, Office of the
Premier, Kimberley, 8300, hand deliver at T & I Building, 69 Monument
Heights, Office of the Premier, Ground Floor (Security), and or email to
hrarecruitment@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Moremi
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : The NC Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and aims to achieve gender and disability representativity at this
level. Therefore, we specifically call for suitably qualified women and persons
with disability to apply. Applications must be submitted on the new application
for employment form (Z83) and accompanied by a comprehensive CV
specifying all qualifications and experience with respective dates. The new
form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained from any
Public Service Department. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, ID and driver’s licence before or on the
day of the interview. Failure to comply with these pre-conditions will disqualify
applications from being processed. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). No late applications will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates in line
with the DPSA directive on Human Resource Management and Development
for Public Service Professionalisation will be subjected to two (2) exercises of
which the first Technical Assessment intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, and the second is an Integrity (ethical conduct)
Assessment. The logistics of which will be communicated by the Department.
All shortlisted candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check, which includes criminal record checks, verification of qualifications,
financial and asset record checks, previous employment verification and
citizenship verification. For the Senior Manager, a further requirement for all
applicants is a successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The
course is available at the NSG under the name “Certificate for entry into SMS”,
and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre entry programme/. The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Management Leadership Programme Certificate for entry into
the SMS. Applicants applying for the Senior position must note that following
the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of the competency-
based assessment). The competency assessment will test generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tool.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into an annual performance
agreement and will have to disclose his/her financial interests annually.
MANAGEMENT EHCELON
POST 17/269 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF NO: CD/CM/2025
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognised Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
Level 7) in Human Resource Management / Public Management, Social
Science and or related Management fields. A minimum of 5 year’s relevant
experience at a Senior Managerial level (SMS) within Human Resource
Management, Operational Management or Administrative Support Functions.
The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme (certificate) is required
and no appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing
the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). A valid driver’s licence.
Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required for the
position: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Skills Levy Act,
190
Occupational Health & Safety Act, Human Resource Development Strategy,
Public Finance Management Act and its regulations, Treasury Regulations,
PSCBC resolutions. Strategic and leadership management, Programme and
Project Management, Change and Knowledge management, Good Corporate
Governance Principles. Planning and organisational skills. Monitoring and
Evaluation. Report writing and communication skills. Leading and controlling
skills. Computer literacy. Decision-making and Networking skills. Leadership
and team building skills. Analytical problem-solving skills. Policy development.
Financial management and formal presentation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Facilitating and co-ordination of Departmental Strategic Management and
Planning Services; The facilitation and co-ordination of departmental Human
Resources Management services; Managing the provisioning of departmental
Communication Services, Legal Services and the facilitation of work
environment and Records Management services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Bekebeke Tel No: (053) 030 0614
POST 17/270 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
SM/FM/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognised Bachelor’s Degree /
Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management, coupled with a
minimum of 5 years’ of experience at a middle/senior managerial level, in
Financial Management, Accounting, Auditing, Risk Management, Budgeting,
and Reporting. Specialisation in Public Finance Management will be an added
advantage. The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme
(certificate) is required and no appointment shall be finalized without the
relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). A
valid driver’s licence. Competencies: The following key competencies and skills
are required for the position: Excellent knowledge of Financial Systems and
budgeting principles; Expert knowledge and experience of basic Accounting
Systems, procedures and controls within the Public Sector; Extensive
experience in the application of strategic management, business planning and
design, performance measurement, Financial Accounting, Management
Accounting, Cost Accounting, internal controls, internal and external audit and
information systems. Knowledge and understanding of programme and Project
Management, People Management and empowerment; Research and
Development methodologies. Excellent communication skills (written and
verbal); client orientation and customer focus, honesty and integrity,
presentation, facilitation and time management skills; problem solving, report
writing, computer and analytical skills, Knowledge of PERSAL and Vulindlela
are key to this post.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Manage the Financial and Management Accounting functions as identified in
the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and the Treasury Regulations to
ensure sound financial management of the Office of the Premier. Management
of Operations, Budget, and Capacity Management. Improve Financial
Management within the department to have an unqualified audit opinion,
Oversee and coordinate the forecasting, planning, implementation, and
reporting on the Office of the Premier’s budget. Manage the preparation and
production of financial Management monthly, quarterly, and annual reports.
Manage the month-end and year-end processes and oversee the compilation
of the interim and Annual Financial Statements. Oversee and report on Donor
funding. Assist the CFO in the development and implementation of the Office
of the Premier’s Financial Policies, procedures, delegations of authority, report
and ensure that non-compliance issues are addressed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Kruger Tel No: (053) 030 0675
POST 17/271 : DIRECTOR: HRD STRATEGY AND TRANSVERSAL CO-ORDINATION-
REF NO: SM/HRDS & TC/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognised Bachelor’s Degree /
Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration/Human Resource
191
Management, coupled with a minimum of 5 years’ of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level, in the Human Resource Development
environment. The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme
(certificate) is required and no appointment shall be finalized without the
relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). A
valid driver’s licence. Competencies: The following key competencies and skills
are required for the position: Planning and Organising, Reporting procedures,
Training, Compilation of management reports, Strategic management,
Problem solving, People management, Conflict management, Project
management, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal relationships, Computer
literacy, Leadership, Policy development, Communication, Networking,
Change Management, Financial management, Research, Client orientation,
Presentation and facilitation, Ability to interpret relevant legislative framework.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Facilitating the development and coordinating the implementation of the
Provincial HRD Strategy, Facilitating, coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating
the implementation of, and full compliance with, Skills Development legislation
and National Human Resource Development Strategies, Policies, and
Programmes, Facilitating and coordinating capacity development within the
Provincial Administration, Overseeing the coordination of the HRD Council in
the Province, Providing leadership to the Provincial Administration in terms of
the awarding of Transversal Bursaries, and the overall managing of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H. Kannemeyer Tel No: (053) 030 0734
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/272 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL HR PLANNING, ORGANISATIONAL
AND OPERATIONS DESIGN REF NO: DD/PHRPO&OD/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must, as a minimum, be in possession of a three years’ tertiary
Degree (NQF Level 7) in organizational Efficiency, organizational Design,
Organisational Development, Industrial Psychology, Human Resource
Management or other closely related area of study, coupled with more than 10
years practical experience in an Organisational Design/ Development
environment, with a minimum of 3 years’ experience at Assistant Director level.
Applicants must also be in possession of a Job Evaluation Certificate and a
Driver’s License. A Certificate in Management Services or a National School
Governors Organizational Design Certificate will serve as an added advantage.
Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required for the
position: Cost-benefit analysis, Development/ design of job descriptions and
job profiles, Organisational Design principles and techniques, Post-
provisioning norms and standards, Operations Management principles and
techniques, Business Process improvement, HR Planning, Job Evaluation,
Organisational Functionality Assessment, HR Delegations, Policy
development, Government machinery, Integration of broader HR practices,
Relevant legislation and policy, Management practices, Risk and Resource
Management, Co-ordination, Data Analysis and Report writing, Formal
presentation, Project Management, Change Management and Productivity
Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
The performing of research and development of Provincial Organisational
Design and related policies, frameworks and guidelines; The monitoring, co-
ordination and promotion of the provincial implementation of legislative
requirements related to organisational design and related matters; The
ensuring of proper design and establishment within the Provincial
Administration; The development of provincial post-provisioning norms and
standards; The co-ordination of Provincial Organisational Job Design and Job
Evaluation projects; Manage the rendering of a Provincial monitoring,
facilitation, co-ordination and support service towards the Provincial
implementation of HR Planning and HR Delegations; The facilitation of all
initiatives relating to the macro-organisation of service delivery machinery in
the province; The performing of research and development of Provincial
operations Management Policies, Frameworks and Guidelines; The monitoring
and co-ordination of Provincial Organisational Functional Analysis; The
192
Provincial monitoring, facilitation and co-ordination of the development and
improvement of Service Delivery Models, Business Process Maps and
Standard Operating Procedures Provincially; The monitoring and co-ordination
of Productivity Management Provincially. The executing of operational
management responsibilities in terms of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Kannemeyer Tel No: (053) 030 0734
POST 17/273 : DEPUTY-DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL RESEARCH SERVICES AND
DEVELOPMENT – ECONOMIC RESEARCH REF NO: MAN/PRS&D/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree in Economics and/or Statistics
and/or closely related fields or a Post graduate degree in Economics and/or
Statistics, experience in the field of environmental management and green or
Circular Economy will be an added advantage, coupled with a minimum of 3
years’ experience in Policy, Planning and Research Environment, at an
Assistant Director level. Competencies: The following key competencies and
skills are required for the position: Advanced Knowledge of Research
Methodology, Project Management and Policy Development, Advanced
Mathematics & analytical skills, Policy analysis, policy implementation and
review processes, Advanced knowledge of how to develop new ideas that
impact on existing methods, Knowledge of the latest advances in public
management theory and practice, Knowledge of the policies of government of
the day.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
Develop a Provincial economic research agenda; Coordinate and facilitate
economic and environmental research activities on Provincial and sector
specific programmes that support evidence-based decision making; Establish
partnerships with all spheres of government, academia, research institutions
and communities of practices; Maintain a repository of Research products and
ensure the provision of archiving and develop research capacity within the
Provincial Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Harsant Tel No: (053) 030 0667
POST 17/274 : GISC TECHNOLOGIST (PRODUCTION – GRADE A) – POLICY AND
PLANNING REF NO: GIS/P&P/2025
SALARY : R466 743 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a 3-4 years Geographic Information
Systems Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) or related Bachelor's Degree and
6-year post-qualification GISc Technologist experience. Certified GIS
Enterprise professional. Compulsory registration with SAGC or PLATO as a
GISc technologist, GISc Professional or Certification as a GIS Enterprise
professional. Valid Driver’s license. A Certification in IT and server
administration will be an added advantage. Competencies: The following key
competencies and skills are required for the position: GISc implementation,
Geo database design and repository management, Geo statistical analysis,
Standard development and policy formulation, Technical report writing; Spatial
analysis knowledge, GIS applications, Legal requirements and compliance,
High-level spatial design and modelling, Organisational Process knowledge,
Systems maintenance, Mobile equipment operating, Open Access, Advanced
computer skills, Interaction and communication, An understanding of provincial
and municipal planning systems, Strong experience with two or more GIS
platforms (ArcGIS platform, QGIS, ERDAS etc.), Must have knowledge of
technical and strategic report writing and understanding of legal compliance,
Experience in Geo-Database design and Enterprise GIS Administration,
Experience in Spatial and statistical analysis and development of information
products like analytics dashboards, story maps etc.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for the following main functions:
Developing and managing spatial information applications within the
organisational process; Providing access to Spatial Information and
Geographic Information Services to all clients in the (Northern Cape Sector
Departments and Local Government); Documenting GIS processes
undertaken during optimisation and integration; Coordinating and managing
the design; development and creation of a geospatial database; Ensuring
193
implementation of GIS Standards Draft Terms of Reference for GIS projects
continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives and; Perform Quality Assurance of all the
data and information products.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. G. Botha at 060 742 1575
POST 17/275 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: DD/AM/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a three-year tertiary qualification
Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management, with a minimum
of 3 years’ experience at Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required for the
position: Knowledge of Public Service prescripts and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Basic Accounting Systems (BAS), Asset
Management Framework, Procurement information management system,
Supply Chain Management and Budget administration. Problem-solving,
Planning and organizing, People Management, Conflict Management, Project
Management, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal relationships, Computer
Literacy, Leadership, Policy development, Networking, Financial Management,
Research, Presentation and facilitation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following main functions:
To develop an asset strategy and co-ordinate the implementation of Assets
Management Strategy and plan; Develop and implement Asset Management
Policies, procedures and guidelines; Ensure that the asset register is updated
regularly and complies with the provisions of generally recognised Accounting
Principles (GRAP) and National Treasury norms and standards, including
leases; The management of assets disposal, losses, Finance Leases and
immovable assets, Ensure that reconciliation between the Asset Register and
Trial Balance is performed monthly; Preparation of Annual Financial
statements on Assets; Provide training on developed policies, procedures,
Asset Management learner guide and guidelines; Manage relationships
between the directorate, internal and external stakeholders e.g. Other
functional areas; AG, operational offices and regional offices, manage
resource allocation to ensure effective staffing levels and utilization according
to organisational needs and perform other activities as required to achieve the
goals of Office of the Premier.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E. Appies Tel No: (053) 030 0820
POST 17/276 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DD/SCM/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a tertiary qualification Degree (NQF Level
7) in SCM/Purchasing /Logistics/Financial Management/Business
Management or other closely related area of study, with a minimum of 3years’
experience at Assistant Director Level within a SCM, Finance or Environment.
A valid driver’s license. Extensive knowledge and experience in SCM, an
understanding of Standard Charts of Accounts (SCOA), In depth knowledge of
Financial Management, Supply Chain Management procedures and prescripts
is vital; Knowledge of the PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, GIAMA and
SCM practice notes, regulations, directives, circulars, policy frameworks is
essential, LOGIS and BAS knowledge and experience, as well as Accounting
Provisioning Administration background required. Competencies: The
following key competencies and skills are required for the position: Good
interpersonal and communication skills as well as advanced computer skills;
The ability to manage staff; possess excellent reporting writing skills; work
independently and overtime when necessary; The successful candidate must
be highly reliable; self-motivated; flexible; creative; client focused and quality
orientated. Have a high ethical standard; able to conduct business with integrity
and in a fair and reasonable manner; ability to promote mutual trust and
respect; innovative; hard-working; ability to work effectively and efficiently
under sustained pressure; An aptitude for working with financial figures with
194
strong people management skills, ability to work within a team context and
motivate team members.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for the following main functions:
Ensure strategic procurement planning and compliance with legislative
requirements to enhance efficiency in departmental procurement; Manage,
develop, review and implement Supply Chain Management acquisition
management framework, polices and methodologies; Manage, undertake and
review the monitoring, analysis and determination of actions to ensure proper
contract administration; Ensure that departmental policies and procedures
promote the principles of efficiency and effectiveness managing the movement
of goods and transport administration; Compile monthly, quarterly and annual
reports to internal and external stakeholders; Manage the Sub-Directorate and
undertake all administrative functions with regard to financial and HR matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E. Appies Tel No: (053) 030 0820
POST 17/277 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DISTRICT COORDINATOR ON AIDS COUNCIL
SECRETARIAT REF NO: AD/DCACS/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a (NQF Level 6) in Public
Health/Business or Public Administration/Social Sciences, coupled with a
minimum of 3 years’ experience in Monitoring & Evaluation & Partnership
Development and experience in fieldwork. Competencies: The following key
competencies and skills are required for the position: Knowledge of Research
Methodology, M&E Frameworks and assessment tools, Knowledge of
database management, Knowledge of HIV Strategies, legislation & policy
framework, Knowledge of South African and Provincial environment with
regard to HIV & Aids, Knowledge of Project Management, Knowledge of the
Public Service Legislative Framework.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for the following main functions:
Co-ordinate a comprehensive multi-sectoral response to the challenges of HIV
and AIDS; Mobilise communities through relevant structures in the
implementation of the multi-sectoral response to HIV and AIDS; Implement and
HIV and AIDS communication plan to ensure dialogue and participation of
communities; Collate data indicators as per the National Strategic Plan; Collate
district HIV and AIDS related response reports; Maintain database of
programmes and sectors in the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. Setima Tel No: (053) 030 0743
POST 17/278 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: AC/FM/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Senior Certificate or an appropriate
equivalent qualification. No experience is required. Competencies: The
following key competencies and skills are required for the position: Preference
will be given to candidates with basic knowledge of financial functions and
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics, Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service Financial
Legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
Basic knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS,
etc), Have good written and verbal communication skills, basic interpersonal
relations, accuracy, planning and organising skills, Computer literacy, The
ability to operate office equipment and perform routine tasks, Be able to
function under pressure and work within a team or independently.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for the following main function:
Render financial accounting transactions; Verify invoices for correctness
(internal control); Perform payment administration support services; Payment
preparation of invoices presented for payment and capturing of payments on
the BAS and LOGIS systems, Petty cash controller; Issuing of receipts and
replenish petty cash; Journal preparation and capturing thereof on the BAS;
Safeguarding of financial records and face value forms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Carolus Tel No: (053) 030 0820
195
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
The Northern Cape Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and aims
to achieve gender, race and disability representivity. Employment decisions shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity targets.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward the applications for the post quoting the relevant reference
number to: Senior Manager, Human Resources Administration, Private Bag
X5016, Kimberley, 8300 or hand deliver at t&i Building, 69 Memorial Road,
Monument Heights, Office of the Premier, Ground Floor (Security) or email to
hrarecruitment@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. V. Fredericks
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new application for employment form
(Z83). The new form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or
obtainable from any Public Service Department and should be accompanied
by a comprehensive CV specifying all qualifications, experience with respective
dates. Applications submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, ID and driver’s licence before or on the day of the interview.
Failure to comply with these pre-conditions will disqualify applications from
being processed. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
No late applications will be accepted. Where applicable, shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be accordingly communicated by
the Department. All shortlisted candidates will further be subjected to a
personnel suitability check which includes criminal record checks, security
vetting, verification of qualifications, financial and asset record checks,
previous employment verification and citizenship verification. A further
requirement for all SMS post(s) is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG), No appointment shall be finalized without the relevant
candidate producing the Nyukela pre-entry certificate for SMS. The course is
available at the NSG under the name “Certificate for entry into SMS” and the
full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
the competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be
testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tool. The successful candidate(s) will be required to
enter into an annual performance agreement and will have to disclose his/her
financial interests annually where applicable. If you have not been contacted
within six (6) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, kindly accept
that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/279 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT FOR EDUCATION REF NO: HOD/DOE/2025
SALARY : R2 259 984 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). (All-inclusive
remuneration package consists of a basic salary and flexible portion structured
according to personal needs, plus 10% non-pensionable Head of Department
allowance.)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA
supported by at least 10 years’ experience at Senior Management level. The
successful candidates will champion accelerated, efficient, effective and
development-oriented service delivery in pursuit of the National Development
Plan and the Medium-Term Strategic Framework within the over-arching
context of the Northern Cape Government’s vision of a Modern, Growing and
Successful Province. Competencies: Proven strategic and leadership qualities,
project and financial management skills. An innovative person who will ensure
the highest standard of service delivery. Excellent problem solving and
analytical skills, people management and empowerment attributes. The
successful candidate must also display the highest standard of ethical and
196
moral conduct and the ability to communicate at all levels. Moreover, honesty,
integrity, analytical thinking and research are pre-requisites. A valid driver’s
licence and computer skills, advanced knowledge of relevant legislation such
as the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Supply
Chain Management policy framework, Public Service Act and Regulations are
further prerequisites.
DUTIES : Responsible for all function/duties as Head of Department in terms of the Public
Service Act and the Public Service Regulations the successful candidate will
be expected to: Develop and implement a departmental strategic plan both for
the in year and the MTEF period plus 2 years; Take all the necessary steps to
ensure that the department is organized and structured in a manner that will
enable the effective and efficient delivery of the Department’s mandate; Be
responsible for all functions/duties as Accounting Officer in terms of the Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations; Monitor and ensure
compliance with all applicable legislation; Provide strategic management
leadership through planning, organizing, monitoring and controlling the
performance of the Department. Reporting to the MEC for Education, the
successful candidate will function as the Head of Department with the following
main functions: Provision of curriculum for ECD & GET in Grades 4 to 9, 10 to
12; Oversee professional teacher development and leadership programmes;
Drive curriculum support and special programmes; Ensure the development of
assessment policies, rules and regulations; Effective implementation of
marking and monitoring processes; Provide cross organizational support in the
conduct of the examinations and the management of irregularity; Management
and development of question papers and the maintenance of an Item Bank;
Ensure the timeous printing, packing and distribution of the examination
material; Provision of leadership in the provisioning of teaching and learning
support services; Co-ordination, management and implementation of learner
social support programmes; Provision of institutional management,
governance and support services; Development and management strategies,
policies, systems, norms and standards and plans related to immovable
assets, equipment & property management; Management of the delivery of the
total Infrastructure Programme related to Capex, Minor capital and
maintenance projects; Management and rendering an IT and Information
Systems; Management and coordination of policy, planning, risk and internal
control services, Facilitate the establishment of risk management capacity in
the departments; Provision of research & development & monitoring and
evaluation of departmental programmes and projects; Provision of Litigation
and advisory services; Provision of legislative drafting and ensure compliance;
Management of contracts and facilitation of property management; Manage
and facilitate Collective Bargaining and dispute resolution processes;
Management, development and implementation of labour relations policies,
guidelines and processes; Management and provision of Financial
Administration and Accounting services; Rendering of Management
Accounting and Institutional funding services; Management and provision of
Supply Chain and Asset Management services; Support the implementation of
appropriate accounting practices and to build Financial Management Capacity
in all Provincial Departments; Management and the implementation of financial
information management systems and other relevant transversal systems;
Monitoring and provision of the implementation of Risk Management;
Monitoring and support on compliance in all the provisions of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA), Financial Management of Parliament and Provincial Legislatures Act
(FMPLA), GRAP, Modified cash standards and other related Acts, regulations
and prescripts; Participation in oversight structure engagements and co-
ordination of audit committee meetings; Improvement of audit outcomes and
development of audit strategies and financial management policies; Oversight
of the coordination and preparation of consolidated annual financial statements
for departments and public entities; Forster financial management capacity
building programmes for the department; Implement and monitor compliance
to national and provincial financial norms and standards by the department;
Ensuring audit outcomes reflecting financial statements free from material
misstatements, free from material findings on non-compliance with legislation;
Set the strategic focus of the Northern Cape Department of Education
(organisational visioning and direction setting); Provide requisite leadership to
senior managers in setting and achieving the goals of the Northern Cape
Department of Education (Leading the organisation); Ensure that sound people
197
and financial management practices are adhered to within the Northern Cape
Department of Education; Champion the change within the Northern Cape
Department of Education; Evaluate the performance of Northern Cape
Department of Education on a continuous basis, against pre-determined key
measurable objectives and standards; Ensure that the department is organized
and structured in a manner that will enable the effective and efficient delivery
of the Department’s mandate; Ensure compliance with all applicable
legislation; Accountable to the member of the Executive Council for the
realization of Government priorities and Intergovernmental Programme of
Action; Ensure operational efficiencies and strategic outputs of the
Department; Develop and implement an effective and efficient diversity
management system within the Northern Cape Department of Education;
Ensure integrated governance in terms of the services and functions of the
Northern Cape Department of Education; Ensuring regional and international
integration in terms of the services and functions of the Northern Cape
Department of Education; Ensuring adherence to the MISS by the Northern
Cape Department of Education; Ensuring interface with external role players
for effective governance by optimizing communication and stakeholder
relationships; Ensure the security threat and risk assessment is conducted for
the Department; and to ensure the development and implementation of an
Internal Security Policy.
ENQUIRIES : J. Bekebeke at 066 484 5888
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINICAL TREASURY
The Northern Cape Provincial Administration is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. The
Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s).
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference number, should be forwarded as
follows: The Deputy Director – Human Resource Management, Post To:
Department of Northern Cape Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X5054,
Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: Metlife Towers Building, Cnr Knight &
Stead, 7th Floor, Post Office Building, Kimberley, or Email applications to:
Ncpt-HR@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. D Barnett
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
NOTE : Applications submitted using the incorrect (old) Z83 form will not be
considered. Further note that the new Z83 form must be completed in full and
signed in order for the applicant to be considered. The new employment (Z83)
form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained at
any government department. Applicants are not required to submit/attach
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application, but must
submit the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae only. The provision of
certified documents will only be required from shortlisted candidates for
submission on or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted applicants will be
subjected to qualification verification, reference checking, security screening
and vetting. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be
required to submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if
shortlisted. In instances where applicants are in possession of a foreign
qualification, it is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only
submit proof of such evaluation upon being shortlisted for a post.
Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Appointment of these positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social
media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed. The successful
candidate will sign the performance agreement and employment contract
within three months from the date of assumption of duty. It will also be required
that the successful candidate declare to the EA particulars of all registrable
financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves
at the Department’s convenience. The department reserves the right not to
make appointments to the advertised posts.
198
OTHER POST
POST 17/280 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPORT REF NO: NCPT/2025/01
(X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Municipal Financial Management
Duration: (12 months’ contract)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : NQF: 6/7 Tertiary Qualification in Financial Management/Financial
Accounting/Management Accounting/Auditing/Local Government
Management/ Finance/ Public Management. 2 - 3 years’ working experience
in the Public and project management environment. Knowledge: Analytical
skills, Organizing skills, Presentation/report writing skills, Numeracy, Advanced
Excel, Communication skills, Planning, Problem solving skills and Project
management.
DUTIES : Support the monitoring and compliance with the Debt Relief reporting
requirements: Monitor and report progress on the conditions of the Municipal
debt relief programme. Submit monthly reports to Head Office on each
municipality on the programme against the conditions. Provide financial
support to municipalities on the debt relief programme: Ensure that
municipalities maintain the average collection and usage of electricity and
water. Ensure that the municipalities are complying with the conditions of the
programme. Hold meetings with municipalities that are non-compliant and not
meeting the conditions. Request training when needed from the Technical
Advisors for the municipalities. Schedule monthly meetings with the
municipalities to go 2 over challenges and risks that have been identified.
Ensure municipalities adhere to the reporting deadlines. Facilitate monthly
compliance certification of municipalities: Facilitate the submission of
compliance certificates within 20 days after each month's end. Facilitate
standardized monitoring across the municipalities to formulate the compliance
certificates. Coordinate the standardised monitoring across municipalities and
provinces format of the certificate of compliance in which the Head of the
relevant Provincial Treasury must monthly certify the municipality’s compliance
with the conditions for municipalities (paragraph 6.1 to 6.14) is included in
Annexure A to this Circular. Upload the Monthly Compliance Certificate to the
National Treasury upload portal. Capacitation of Municipalities: Facilitate
workshops with municipalities on new developments. Train municipalities on
reporting tools. Ensuring that municipalities adhere to debt relief conditions.
Monitoring credit control policies to ensure that there is revenue collection.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Mgaguli at 066 188 6322
199
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts and
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference. An
indication in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : The Head of Department, Department of Community Safety and Transport
Management, Private Bag X19, Mmabatho, 2735 Office No. 105, 1st Floor,
Tirelo Building, Cnr Albert Luthuli Drive and Dr. James Moroka Drive, or email
to the relevant e-mail address associated with the post applied for.
FOR ATTENTION : Kegomoditswe Makaota Tel No: (018) 200 8258
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 at15H30
NOTE : Compliance Note: Applications must be submitted on the improved Z83,
approved to be utilized with effect 01 January 2021, which must be completed
in such a manner that provides sufficient information about your candidature
and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields. The declaration must
be signed and initials on the second page are not mandatory. Should the
applicant/s use incorrect application form for employment (Z83), or not
compliant to the notes, the application/s will not be considered for selection
purposes (disqualified). The Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum
Vitae with at least three (3) names of referees with current contact details.
Subjects of relevant qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Completion
of the Z83 form: Part A: All fields must be fully completed. Parts B: All fields
except date of birth and ID number. Part C, D, E, F and G may be left blank,
marked as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or
the position applied for and as long as the CV has been attached and provides
the required information, however question related to conditions that prevent
re-appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-
employment into the Public Service. Applicants do not have to submit
copies//proof/certificates/attachments/drivers licence/qualifications on
application, only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. The employment
application form (Z83) is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department,
and it is accessible on the DPSA website, www.dpsa.gov.za Failure to submit
or comply with the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Should the applicant fail to submit or not comply with the requested
documents, or not meet minimum requirements of the job as per the post
advertised, this will result in the employment application not being considered.
Qualifications of shortlisted candidates will be verified with SAQA. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish this Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Positions requiring tertiary qualification/s must be accompanied by copies of
academic record/transcript(s). Candidates must indicate the number of the
post/reference number in their applications. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding an advertised post must direct their queries to the person
reflected as enquiries below the post applied for. Applications should be
forwarded in time to the department since applications received after the
closing date indicated below will as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected
of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department. The Department reserves the right not to
make appointments and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Personnel suitability check records will be conducted.
Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company
or conducting any business with organ of State. They must also disclose or
inform whether he/she is performing any additional remunerative work outside
his /her normal duties. All appointments are subjected to a positive
qualifications verification as well as security clearance. SMS appointments are
also subjected to SMS competency assessment as a DPSA requirement. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts and positions with requisite skills will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Applicants who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate
shall be considered for shortlisting and interviews, but cannot be appointed
before they successfully obtain the certificate. (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) is
offered by the National School of government, information can be accessed via
200
this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post must be in
possession of such, prior to taking up the post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/281 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT COORDINATION AND GOVERNMENT
FLEET REF NO: 04/2025/26
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Government Fleet
This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification in Public
Administration/Administration as recognised by SAQA coupled with five (5)
years’ experience at senior management level within Administration. Computer
Literacy. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Broad knowledge of Public
Financial Management Act and its Regulation. In depth knowledge of Public
Service Act. Broad knowledge of Public Service Regulation and its Regulation.
Broad knowledge of Infrastructure Management. Knowledge of Technical
Standards/Procedures. Knowledge of South African Police Service Acts and
also knowledge that governs Traffic Operations. Knowledge of Managerial
Functions. Skills: Ability to interact professionally and effectively with diverse
stakeholders. An innovative, assertive and confident approach. Ample initiative
and an independent work ethic, self-motivated and reliable. Investigation,
Excellent report writing, research, analytical thinking, decision making and
problem solving skills. Client oriented and customer focus and results driven.
High level communication and presentation skills. Ability to interact at both
strategic and operational level. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem
Solving and analysis, Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness and ensure efficiency
to the Provincial Secretariat for Police Service. Ensure monitoring and control
of Transport Regulations. Ensure the efficiency of Transport Operations in the
District. Oversee the management of Government Motor Fleet. Coordinate
District Corporate Services function. Manage and control all the resources
within the Chief Directorate. Provide Strategic Leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. H Kekana Tel No: (018) 200 8001
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment01@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : Male candidates are encouraged to apply
POST 17/282 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT OPERATIONS REF NO: 05/2025/26
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Government Fleet
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification in Transport
Management, Transport Economics or Transport Logistics as recognised by
SAQA coupled with five (5) years’ experience at senior management level
(SL13) within the Transport Environment. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Broad knowledge and understanding of Government
Policies and other relevant prescripts. In depth knowledge of legislative
prescripts governing Transport Sector. Ability to conceptualise policy and apply
it successfully. Policy analysis and interpretation. Skills: Ability to interact
professionally and effectively with diverse stakeholders. An innovative,
assertive and confident approach. Ample initiative and an independent work
ethic, self-motivated and reliable, Excellent report writing, analytical thinking,
201
decision making and problem-solving skills. Client oriented and customer focus
and results driven. High level communication and presentation skills. Ability to
interact at both strategic and operational level. Computer Literacy. Ability to
work under pressure. Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership,
People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and maintenance of Transport policies, legislations,
information systems as well as the planning process thereof. Oversee the
management of Transport Operations within the province. Manage Public
Passenger and Leaner Transport Subsidized Contracts. Oversee the
implementation and maintenance of Provincial Aviation matters. Oversee the
management, monitoring and regulation of Public Transport in the province.
Ensure the successful empowerment, capacitation, and liaison with all Public
Transport Stakeholders. Manage and control all the resources within the Chief
Directorate. Provide Strategic Leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Kekana Tel No: (018) 200 8001
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment02@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : Female candidates are encouraged to apply
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Completed applications should be forwarded to the Director: Human Resource
Management, Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs,
Private Bag X2145, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand delivered to Telkom Building,
3366 Bessemer Street, Industrial Site, Mafikeng (Behind the Crossing
Shopping Complex) or email address: nwcogtarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms Ethelia Masibi Tel No: (018) 388 3933 or Ms Katlego Sebaetse Tel No:
(018) 388 3935
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025 Time (15H30)
NOTE : Directions to Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the prescribed
form, new Z83 (properly completed), obtainable from any Public Service office.
A comprehensive CV with competencies, experience, and with full names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of at least three referees. Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on applications; however, shortlisted candidates must submit other relevant
documents to HR on or before the day of the interview and must be certified.
Please note: It is the responsibility of a person in possession of a foreign
qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted.
Applications should be forwarded in time to the Department, since applications
received after the closing date indicated below will, as a rule, not be accepted.
It will be expected of candidates to be available for interviews on a date and
time and at a place as determined by the Department. Please note if you have
not heard from us within three (03) months after the closing, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Appointment of the successful candidate
(s) will be strictly subject to the Personnel Suitability Checks results/outcome
before appointment. Failure to comply with the above requirements will result
in the disqualification of the application. The applicants should state the
applicable reference number with the relevant post. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding the advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the relevant person indicated on enquiries. Directions on how to fill in the
New Z83 Form NB: Candidate should note the following information on the new
Z83 application form: All fields of the Z83 are compulsory, and the applicant’s
signature is mandatory. The Z83 must be completed in full and signed for an
applicant to be considered. The form must be completed in manner that
provides sufficient information about the candidate and the post applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The questions related to conditions that prevent
re-appointment under part F must be answered, it requires an applicant to
specify if any conditions may prevent re-employment in the public service.
Applicants currently employed by the public service do not need to complete
the section intended for those seeking re-employment. The Z83 form must be
completed in full and signed in order for an applicant to be considered. Part
A,B,C and D applicants may leave questions blank, mark them as not relevant,
and uses dashes or N/A if they do not apply to them or the position they are
applying for. The initials on the second page, where the signature is situated,
202
are not mandatory. The North West Department of Cooperative Governance &
Traditional Affairs is an Affirmative Action Employer with the intention of
promoting representatively (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
these posts. People with disability are encouraged to apply. NB: The
Department reserves the right not to make Appointments. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/283 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL GOVERNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
01/25-26
Chief Directorate: Local Governance
Directorate: Municipal Governance Support
Job Purpose: To administer Municipal Governance and Corporate services
support.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/ Degree in Public Administration/Public Management/ Human
Resource Management/Management (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA,
5 years’ of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial Level. Nyukela SMS Pre-
Entry Certificate (submitted prior to appointment). Valid driver’s License.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In depth knowledge of Municipal Planning &
Performance Management Regulations, Public Service Regulation, National
Capacity Building Framework, Consumer Protection Act, Municipal Structure
Act, Municipal System Act, Gov-Chat Software, Public Office Bearers Act,
Municipal Finance Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Employee
Equity Act. Organisational Structure Design, Job Evaluation, Human Resource
Planning, Strategic Capability, Work Study Investigation, Facilitation,
Negotiation, Conflict Management, Analytical & Research, Computer Literacy,
Communication & Report Writing, Organising & Planning, Policy Interpretation
& development.
DUTIES : Facilitate Implementation of Municipal Governance Oversight Support.
Coordinate Implementation of Municipal Organisational Development and
Human Resource Planning Support services. Coordinate Implementation of
Municipal Capacity development support services. Facilitate Implementation of
Municipal Labour Relation. Coordinate Implementation of Municipal Human
Resource Administration support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JK Mashigo Tel No: (018) 388 4765
POST 17/284 : DIRECTOR: TRADITIONAL INSTITUTIONS ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
02/25-26
Chief Directorate: Traditional Institutional Management
Directorate: Traditional Institutional Administration
Job Purpose: To administer implementation of Traditional Institutions and
Resource Administration Services.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Degree in Public Administration/ Business/ Financial
Management/Governance/Social Science (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
SAQA. 5 years’ of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial Level. Nyukela
Compliance Certificate (submitted prior to appointment). Valid driver’s License.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In-depth knowledge Customary Law,
Traditional Khoi-San Leadership Act, North West House of Traditional Leaders
Act, Public Financial Management Act, Public Service Regulation. Financial
Management, Project Management, Strategic Capability, Conflict
Management, Report writing, Communication, Computer Literacy,
Interpersonal & Facilitation, Policy Interpretation & Development.
DUTIES : Facilitate implementation of Traditional Council Land Administration Support.
Facilitate Implementation of Traditional governance and Resource
Administration services. Coordinate Implementation of Rural Development
facilitation services. Coordinate Implementation of Traditional Institutional
Financial Administration services. Coordinate Implementation of district
Traditional Institutions Financial and Administrative Support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Ruthoane Tel No: (018) 388 5483
203
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/285 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
REF NO: 03/25-26
Chief Directorate: Development And Planning
Directorate: Provincial Disaster Management Centre
Job Purpose: To coordinate implementation of Provincial disaster
management systems and structures
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12. Diploma/Degree in Disaster Management/ Emergency
Management/ Environmental Science or any other relevant qualification
(NQF6/7 as recognized by SAQA). Minimum 3-5 years’ relevant experience at
Junior Management/Assistant Director level in Provincial Disaster
Management Support. Valid driver’s License. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills:
In-depth knowledge of United Nations international strategy on Disaster
Reduction, Sendai Framework for Disaster Reduction, Disaster Management
Act, National Disaster Management Framework, Municipal Finance
Management Act, North West Disaster Management Framework, Municipal
Indicative Disaster Risk Profile, Disaster Management Processes, Public
Financial Management Act, Public Service Act, Treasury Relations, Division
Revenue Act. Strategic Planning & Management, Leadership, Analytical &
Research, Communication, Report Writing, Problem Solving, Presentation &
Facilitation, Policy Interpretation and Development, Computer Literacy,
Financial Management, Information Management, Project Management.
DUTIES : Monitor integrated institutional capacity and support disaster management.
Facilitate Implementation of disaster response and recovery plans. Facilitate
sourcing of disaster relief funds. Facilitate disaster risk assessment. Monitor
Disaster risk reduction programmes and capacity building.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ramagaga Tel No: (018) 388 4129
POST 17/286 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL & COMPLIANCE REF NO:
04/25 -26
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Financial Administration
Job Purpose: To coordinate implementation of internal control and compliance
Measures.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12. Diploma/Degree in Internal Auditing/ Financial
Management/Risk Management/Public Financial Management (NQF6/7 as
recognized by SAQA). Minimum 3-5 years’ relevant experience as Assistant
Director: Financial Accounting/ Auditing/ Financial Management level. Valid
driver’s License. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In-depth knowledge of
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulations, Public Financial
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Accounting Manuals, Treasury
Instructions Notes, Government Financial systems operations, Modified cash
Standard. Auditing Skills, Financial Management, Information Management,
Leadership, Analytical & Research, Communication, Problem Solving,
Facilitation, Policy Interpretation and Development, Computer Literacy,
Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Review Compliance of financial and performance reporting. Review
implementation of integrated internal control systems. Facilitate
implementation of external audit processes. Facilitate implementation of
internal control measures. Facilitate implementation of pre-audit and post audit
payment processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SPE Legoale Tel No: (018) 388 1620
POST 17/287 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION REF NO: 05/25 -26
Chief Directorate: Corporate Management Services
Directorate: Communication Management Services
Job Purpose: To coordinate provision of internal Communication Services.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
204
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12.Diploma/Degree in Communication/Public Relations/Media
Studies (NQF6/7 as recognized by SAQA). Minimum 3-5 years’ relevant
experience at Assistant Director or Middle Management in Corporate/ Internal
Communication Services Level. Valid driver’s License.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In-depth knowledge of Batho Pele
Regulatory Prescripts, Public Service Regulation, Public Financial
Management Act, The South African Government Communication and
Information Systems (GCIS), The Provincial Communication Strategy, The
South African Governments Official Language Policy. Event Management
Skills. Media Relations and Journalism, Language and Translation
Coordination, Event Management, Stakeholder Engagement, Project
Management, Analytical and Problem-solving Skills, Leadership and Team
Management, Interpersonal and Negotiation Skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate promotion of Departmental Corporate Identity services. Monitor
departmental website. Facilitate Provision of language translation services.
Monitor design for corporate material. Monitor of functionality Local
Government Communicators structures. Facilitate design of multimedia
products and maintenance of department social media platforms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Thapelo Tel No: (018) 388 4836
POST 17/288 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
REF NO: 06/25 -26
Chief Directorate: Corporate Management Services
Directorate: ICT, Knowledge & Records Management Services
Job Purpose: To coordinate implementation of Information Communication
Technology, knowledge & records Services.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12.Diploma/Degree in Information Technology, Information
Systems, Computer Systems, Knowledge management/Records
Management, Information Management, Archival Studies, /Library Science
(NQF6/7 as recognized by SAQA). Minimum 3-5 years’ relevant experience at
Assistant Director or Middle Management in Information communication
technology/ records management/ knowledge management. Valid driver’s
License. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In-depth knowledge of Batho Pele
Regulatory Prescripts, Public Finance Management Act, Electronic
Communications and Transactions Act, State Information Technology Agency
Act, National Cybersecurity Policy Framework, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, Public service Act, Public Service Regulation, National
Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act, Protection of Personal
Information Act, Minimum Information Security Standards, Government-Wide
Enterprise Architecture, ICT Strategy Development, Records Management,
Knowledge Management, Cybersecurity Management, Project Management,
Data Analytics and Reporting, Stakeholder Engagement, Change
Management, Knowledge harvesting and dissemination, Leadership and Team
Management, Problem-solving and Innovation, Communication and Training.
DUTIES : Facilitate implementation of information technology systems. Facilitate
Implementation of Information Communication Technology security risk
strategies. Facilitate provision of security network and Information Technology
Infrastructure support. Monitor back-end Information Technology Infrastructure
services. Facilitate provision of electric and manual records management
services. Facilitate provision of knowledge management services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Hagan Tel No: (018) 388 242
205
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/289 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
REGULATORY SERVICES REF NO: AGR 41/2025
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 5-year (NQF 8) qualification within an Agricultural Science or
Public Administration environment; A minimum of 8 years appropriate senior
management experience; Valid driver’s licence (code B); and the successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme.
Recommendation: Master or higher qualification within an Agricultural Science
or Public Administration environment; Sound knowledge and understanding of
the Agricultural Sector. Competencies: Excellent planning, organising,
computer, presentation and people management skills; Knowledge of
applicable legislation; Strategic capability, management and leadership skills;
The ability to multitask, deal with ambiguity, manage under rapidly changing
and pressurised circumstances; Financial management and negotiation skills;
and Ability to communicate at all levels and across sectors utilising various
media.
DUTIES : Enhance and sustain the departmental strategic direction in line with the
strategic vision, budget and management plans, of both the Department and
the Western Cape Government; Oversee strategic line function management
regarding: Veterinary services pertaining, to animal health, food safety, export
control, laboratory services, Research and development of agricultural
technology, Agricultural economic research and client support; Evaluate and
interpret impact of provincial, national and environmental variables; Advise top
management and executing authority on impact of strategic changes; Ensure
compliance with Public Service statutory frameworks, regulations and
professional ethics applicable to programmes in the Branch; Maintain good
relations with industrial role-players, academic institutions and other relevant
bodies in the Agricultural environment; Promote Agricultural research and
regulatory services across all spheres of government; Explore and implement
new ways of service delivery innovations; and People Management.
206
ENQUIRIES : Dr MP Sebopetsa Tel No: (021) 808 5006
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/290 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TECHNICAL SUPPORT REF NO: AGR 08/2024 R1
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Pomology, Horticulture or related field; A minimum of 6 years’ experience in an
agricultural environment; A valid code B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: An appropriate postgraduate
(BSc Hons and/or MSc degrees or higher qualification); Practical experience
in: Pome/stone fruit, citrus or berry production; Research and development as
well as adaptive research; Mentoring, coaching and supervision of pomology
related extension; Networking with fruit industry and related commodities on a
professional level. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the
following: Agricultural pomology production sector; Soil crop relations, climatic
conditions for crops in the province; Rural promology advisory services and
related policies; Land reform and applicable agricultural development policies
in South Africa; Financial Management, Human Resources and applicable
prescripts. Skills needed: Scientific writing and editing; Communication
(written, verbal and report writing); Planning and organising; Computer
especially in MS Office, Adobe and CC Suite; Excellent attention to detail;
Good interpersonal and technical intelligence capabilities.
DUTIES : Develop internal operational and information systems, consisting of
appropriate data, frameworks and procedures in order to improve the efficiency
of advisory services in Pome, stone citrus and berry production spheres;
Develop technical, economic and business acumen of extension officers
regarding pomology production, operations and improved service delivery;
Facilitate training and capacity building to agriculturists and farmers; Provide
strategic and specialist inputs to implement innovations and perform critical
supportive roles in animal production; Administration and management of
human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Aries Tel No: (021) 808 5103
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/291 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): SOIL PLANT WATER
INTERACTION REF NO: AGR 19/2024 R2 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
ELSENBURG AND TYGER HOEK)
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Soil Science or equivalent
qualification; Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council
for Natural Scientific Professions) as a Certificated Natural Scientist in the
appropriate field of practice; 3 years post qualification technical scientific
experience; A valid driving licence. Recommendation: Experience in soil
science research; Experience with soils in small grain crops and systems of
the Western Cape. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Major small
grain crops in the Western Cape; Soils in the Western Cape, climate smart
agriculture; Settings, calibration and basic maintenance of appropriate
equipment and implements; Technical scientific inputs needed for research
trials in the field; Farm work related to research; Technical planning skills;
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc);
Communication (written and verbal) skills; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Render technical assistance in research projects for the development of more
efficient farming practices; Administer the creation/adaptation/maintenance of
the necessary infrastructure in accordance with the project plan; Perform all
207
administrative and related functions; Render advice and disseminate technical
information to applicable role players; Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments in the subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 808 5320
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/292 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: SALARY DEDUCTIONS REF NO: AGR
42/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with accounting as a
passed subject; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Debt
Management or related. Recommendation: A valid (code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Financial background specifically in Public Sector Finance;
Report procedures; PERSAL and BAS; Relevant legislation, directions and
procedures with regard to financial administration and more specifically of:
PFMA, NTR'S, PTI'S and Division of Revenue Act (DORA). Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Presentation skills; Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Internet, Outlook); Planning and
organising; Problem solving and decision making within the field of work;
Research; Analysing; Ability to interpret policies and directives; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Debt Management; Accounting Policies and Procedures (Journals and
Payments), Suspense and Ledger accounts; Human Resources Management
and Operational Planning; Tax matters; PERSAL deductions and allowances;
Maintenance over operating systems (PERSAL), Batch Control, salary advices
and third party payments, PERSAL Forum; Travel and subsistence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Adonis Tel No: (021) 808 5104
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Only applications submitted online at: www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co. will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit copies of their documentation for verification
purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and
time as determined by the department. The selection process will be guided by
the EE targets of the employing department. Should you experience difficulties
with your online application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with
online application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the
advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/293 : GENERAL WORKER: REGIONAL MUSEUM EDEN CENTRAL KAROO
DIAS REF NO: CAS 25/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write (ABET). Competencies: A good understanding of the
following: Working with different chemicals; Cleaning of artifacts; Cleaning in
an aquarium; Batho Pele; Skills needed: Written and verbal communication;
Good time management; Ability to work in a team and individually; Ability to
manage conflict.
208
DUTIES : Cleaning of museum complex; Cleaning of offices; Provide optimal support to
the manager, supervisor and colleagues with general cleaning and
housekeeping duties; General cleaning and housekeeping of the museum
complex (i.e. dust/sweep/ polish/ scrub/ mop/ clean windows/ walls/equipment
and refuse removal); General cleaning of all museum exhibition areas and
exhibition cases according to museum practices; Assist with the conservation
of the Museum artefacts, following museum practices; Effective and efficient
utilisation and storage of cleaning materials and equipment; General
assistance in setting up, cleaning and clearing of venues; Rendering
assistance during museum events and functions; Adhere to general safety
standards and security procedures and keep a safe environment.
ENQUIRIES : Lorinda Hakimi Tel No: (044) 691 1067
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
or Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
or Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/294 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MANUFACTURING REF NO: DEDAT 21/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post school (equivalent or higher) qualification in
economics, finance or commerce; A minimum of 3 years management
experience. Recommendation: An appropriate undergraduate degree at NQF
7 or higher in economics, finance or commerce as recognised by SAQA; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: HRM processes and labour
relations; Public Financial Management Act; Project Management; Public
service procedures; Knowledge of applicable policies and procedures;
Stakeholder and relationship management; Monitoring and evaluation
systems. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Problem
solving; Decision making; Strategic and creative thinking; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
209
DUTIES : To develop and implement operational manufacturing sector programmes
derived from the strategic framework for Trade and Sector Development;
Maintain networks with key stakeholders and ensure horizontal and vertical
alignment with the sector; Support and implement the market growth and
promotion of the sector; Identify and address sector-specific blockages and
participate in the unlocking of opportunities to achieve strategic outcomes; Co-
develop and support programmes to improve sector competitiveness and
development; Act as a project manager for the various manufacturing
programmes being designed and developed through national and provincial
government policy; Human resource and financial management.
ENQUIRIES : Marthinus van Wyk Tel No: (021) 483-3106
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/295 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AGRI-PROCESSING REF NO: DEDAT 25/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Economics; A minimum of 3 years management level
experience. Recommendation: A qualification at NQF level 7 in Economics;
Export and Investment development experience; Research related
qualifications and or experience; Policy and strategy development; A valid
driving license (Code B or higher) NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Economic Research; Agri-
processing Sector; Trade and sector development; Investment Development.
Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Power BI, SharePoint); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Research and Report Writing; Presentation Skills; Economic Research and
modelling; Data Analysis; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Project Management; Research; Stakeholder relation management;
Presentation Development; Project Proposal Writing; Financial Management
as it relates to projects; Human Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Goodwell Dingaan at Goodwell.Dingaan@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/296 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: KNOWLEDGE AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DEDAT 27/2025
(5 Year Contract Position)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Knowledge and Information Management or Information and
Communication Technology (ICT); A minimum of 3 years management level
experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Bachelor of Commerce in
Knowledge and Information Management or Information and Communication
Technology (ICT). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public Service
legislation, including POPIA, PAIA and PAJA; Management and people
management principles; Financial Management; Records Management
Systems; Electronic content management including database structures;
Policies and prescripts related to records and knowledge management; Project
Management; Data Science; Information Management. Skills in the following:
Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Typing; Language; Project Management;
Accounting Finance and Audit; Information Technology; Economic, financial
analysis' Legal Administration; Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Provide records and Registry Service Management including electronic
content Management (ECM); Develop and maintain knowledge and
210
information management within the department; Plan, manage and coordinate
information and communication technology (ICT) services; Develop, manage
and test Business Continuity Planning; Facilitate and coordinate Risk
Management, Internal Audit reviews, Information Security and Audit
Committee feedback; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Cheryl Julies Kayembe Wa Kayembe Tel No: (021) 483 9000
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/297 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANUFACTURING REF NO: DEDAT 20/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post school qualification (equivalent or higher) in
economics, finance or commerce; A minimum of 3 years relevant
administrative and project management experience. Recommendation: An
appropriate undergraduate degree at NQF 7 or higher in economic, finance or
commerce as recognised by SAQA; A valid driving licence (Code B or higher).
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: HRM processes and labour relations; Public Financial
Management Act; Project Management; Stakeholder management; Monitoring
and evaluation systems. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and
verbal); Problem-solving and decision-making; Applied strategic and creative
thinking; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of sector strategies, policies, programmes and
projects; Maintain networks with key stakeholders and support value chain
alignment within the sectors; Support and implement the market growth and
promotion of the prioritised sectors; Participate in the unlocking of opportunities
to achieve strategic outcomes; Provide administrative services to support
programmes, the directorate and chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ilse van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 483 9494
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/298 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AGRI-PROCESSING REF NO: DEDAT 26/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Economics or Agricultural Economics; A minimum of 3 years
relevant administrative experience in agri-processing or sector development.
Recommendation: An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or higher; A valid
driving licence (Code B or higher). NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply;
Export and Investment development; Research related qualifications and or
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Programme and
Project Management; Stakeholder management; Agri-processing Sector;
Financial Management as it relates to projects; Trade and sector development.
Problem Solving. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Power BI, SharePoint); Communication
skill (written and vertbal); Research and Report Writing; Presentation Skills;
Economic Research and modelling; Data Analysis; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of sector strategies, policies, programmes and
projects; Maintain networks with key stakeholders and support horizontal and
vertical alignment; Support and implement the market growth and expansion;
Participate in the unblocking of opportunities to achieve strategic outcomes;
Provide an administrative service to support programmes, the Directorate and
the Chief- directorate; Provide support relating to the implementation of the
211
export strategy; Provide assistance in the operations of the Chief Directorate
and Department.
ENQUIRIES : Goodwell Dingaan Tel No: (021) 483 9315 /
Goodwell.Dingaan@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the Post: Manager: Hast, Mitchells Plain District
Hospital, Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, with reference number Post
16/383: advertised in the Public Service Vacancy dated 16 My 2025. The advert
has been amended as follows: Centre: Klipfontein Mitchell’s Plain Sub-
structure
Kindly note that the Post: Senior Industrial Technician (Clinical Engineering:
Electronics Workshop) Clinical Engineering Goodwood, Electronics, Head
Office, Cape Town with reference number: Post 16/403: Advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy dated 16 My 2025. The post has been cancelled.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/299 : DIRECTOR: PROJECT OFFICER: TYGERBERG HOSPITAL
REDEVELOPMENT
Directorate: Facilities and Infrastructure Management
(3 Years Renewable Contract)
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
(NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA with at least 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level. Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior
Management Services is a requirement (Candidates not in possession of this
entry requirement can still apply but are requested to register for the course
and complete it as no appointment can be made in the absence thereof. The
course is available at the National School of Governance (NSG) under the
name “Certificate for entry into the SMS” and the full details can be sourced
from the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. All costs associated herewith are the responsibility of the
applicant). Experience Extensive experience in project management,
preferably, for large infrastructure projects. Stakeholders Management.
Infrastructure contract management. Project finance. Inherent requirements of
the job: Ability to work extended hours (after hours and weekends) when
required. Physically fit and healthy enough to walk long distances in the
confines of a building and/or on a construction site. Valid South African (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): PPP knowledge and
experience from the public or private sector, incl. PFMA and Treasury
Regulation 16. Relevant Project Management methodology. Relevant
knowledge and skills in law, finance, public administration and document
management. Advanced computer literacy (Microsoft Office) and ability to use
computerized Project Management tools. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Good understanding of facilities management needs and
functions. Strong negotiation skills and advanced interpersonal skills. Ability to
manage diverse interests and processes in the interest of government.
Excellent report writing and presentation skills. Adaptive leadership skills.
DUTIES : Direct and manage the transaction advisor team. Manage the planning,
implementation and contract management of the PPP project on behalf of the
Department, exercising delegated authority, in line with Treasury Regulation
16 to the Public Finance Management Act and PPP Practice Notes. Consult
with the management of affected institutions at all relevant stages in the project
212
cycle and ensure ongoing consultation and buy-in from relevant stakeholders.
Diligently manage the project from inception to the signing of the PPP
agreement and financial closure, to ensure that the project is affordable to the
institution, provides an optimal value for money solution and appropriately
allocates risk to the private party. Manage all information systems necessary
for the proper planning and implementation of the project. Manage the PPP, in
terms of the PPP agreement management plan, on behalf of the institution in
line with Treasury Regulation 16.7. Manage the staff of the PPP Project Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Angeletti-Du Toit Tel No: (021) 483-5354
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/300 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
(PHYSICIAN)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years of appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's licence and
willingness to travel. Willingness to perform commuted overtime. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Groupwise). Competencies (knowledge/ skills): -
Strong record of clinical expertise, clinical governance, research, teaching and
training at under and postgraduate levels. Excellent managerial, interpersonal,
leadership, administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving
skills. Ability to supervise clinical training and teaching.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum
of internal medicine services. Develop and supervise quality of care
improvement programs within the internal medicine unit. Supervision of junior
medical staff and medical officers. Attendance and coordination of relevant
administrative meetings like morbidity and mortality meetings and completing
medico-legal documents timeously. Participation in the academic programmes
in the hospital and all activities of the discipline in relation to teaching and
research. Ensure proper and accurate record keeping as legally and ethically
required. Assisting with the implementation of and adherence to of ideal
hospital standards within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918 1733
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
213
Candidate may be subjected to a practical assessment The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/301 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Specialist in Orthopaedics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Specialist in Orthopaedics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Available and
willing to participate in after-hours duties, if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong record of specialist clinical expertise and clinical
governance. Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. At least 36 months prior
experience as a specialist in Orthopaedic surgery. Proven knowledge of public
health policies, clinical guidelines, and related prescripts to manage resources
effectively. Appropriate experience and ability in teaching, training and
supervision of students, Registrars Medical Staff and Medical interns.
Appropriate experience and ability to perform or guide research.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients. Perform
outreach services within the hospital catchment area. Management and
perform of relevant clinical governance, resource stewardship and
administrative requirements in the Department. Leadership of a multi-
disciplinary clinical team. Perform clinical teaching, training, and research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Fourie Tel No: (021) 860 2500 or
Stephanus.Fourie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.? Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Paarl Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/302 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: PLASTIC SURGERY
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
214
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a team. Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability to initiate research, strong
academic record in terms of teaching and research supported by publications
and presentations. Support to postgraduate and Masters’ students.
Commitment to attaining advanced surgical skills especially in Microsurgery.
Computer literacy, the ability to develop and work with databases. Skills and
experience in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and training.
DUTIES : Assist with leadership and oversight of the day-day running of the Division of
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Assess, investigate and manage patients
referred to the Plastic Surgery service from the Western Cape and beyond.
Help manage the out-patient service for Plastic Surgery. Assist with cross-
cover for the plastic service at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital.
Ensuring, as part of a team, continuous improvements in the quality, efficiency
and outcome of plastic surgery patients. Actively participate in all the academic
activities of the division including performing and overseeing research. Train
under/post-graduate students, including elective students, and other allied
health personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Adams Tel No: (021) 406 6415 or email: saleigh.adams@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work
across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East
hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New
Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/303 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PROSTHODONTICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(2 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Dentist. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence.
Participation in the commuted overtime system may be required depending on
the service requirements. Primaries and/or Postgraduate qualification relevant
to Prosthodontics.
DUTIES : Rendering of service and research on combined platform as determined by the
Head of department. Undergraduate teaching and training on the platform of
Oral Health Centre (includes satellite clinics) as required by the Head of
215
department. Completion of the 4 years (48 months) academic requirements for
MChD Degree at UWC. Administration duties as determined by the Head of
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Khan Tel No: (021) 937 3006
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Appointment as
Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/304 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS ASSURANCE
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the
individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Health related tertiary
qualification (NQF level 6) registerable with the HPCSA. Experience:
Appropriate managerial experience. Appropriate experience in the Emergency
Services platform. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel within the province. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Knowledge of EMS legislation and regulations as well as Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of contract management and the
appropriate governing legislation. Excellent leadership and managerial skills.
Networking abilities with external stakeholders. Excellent communication and
interpersonal skills. Computer Literacy proficient. Knowledge of relevant legal,
policy, managerial and clinical aspects related to public health
programmes/interventions and services.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance with EMS legislation and regulations. Ensure a positive
health and safety culture in the EMS workplace. Collaborate towards the
development of alternative service delivery channels towards UHC. Develop
and ensure sound stakeholder management practices. Ensure effective and
efficient people management. Ensure effective and efficient Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie Tel No: (021) 508 4519
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
216
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/305 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C ELECTRICAL
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 per annum
, Grade C: R1 127 100 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Professional Engineering Services (Location on the grounds of Karl Bremer
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 4-year degree Electrical
Engineering (BEng/BScEng). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineer; Or have submitted with ECSA for Professional registration as a
Professional Engineer (proof of payment to be submitted with application) and
compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer will then be
applicable within six (6) months after appointment. Experience: Grade A: At
least 3 years appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the relevant
qualification e.g. BSc (Eng.). Grade B: At least 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration as a Professional
Engineer. Grade C: At least 26 years appropriate/recognisable after
registration as a Professional Engineer. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willing to work overtime, stay away and travel throughout the Western Cape
Province, often at short notice. Willing to assist in other institutions and
directorates. Physically fit and able to inspect buildings and related engineering
infrastructure and machinery. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in the maintenance
and operation of electrical - and electronic systems and infrastructure.
Appropriate experience in the compilation of specifications and procurement
documentation. MV Switch gear, Reticulation and transformers. LV reticulation.
Fire detection and electronic services associated with the Built Environment.
Electrical installations specific to Health care facilities. Implementation of green
and energy savings technologies. Knowledge in the compilation of
specifications and tender documentation. Contracts and quality management
skills. Knowledge of risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies and
prioritisation. Conversant with OHSA and regulations pertaining to Electrical
and Electrical installations. Conversant with NEC contracts especialy the
Short-, Term service- and Framework aggreement forms of contracts.
Computer literate (MS Word. Auto CAD and Excel). Knowledge and experience
in computer aided design of engineering infrastructure in the health care
environment. Sound interpersonal and good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Compile specifications and tender documentation within time limits. Manage,
identify projects from inception to close-out. Investigate proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms for Routine and Day-to-Day
Maintanance. Liaise with clients with regard to information and work progress.
Ensure continuity of service schedules, prioritizing work, and consideration of
operational requirements. Ensure Engineering infrastructure, plant and
equipment complies with Occupational Health and Safety Act and Built
environment related regulations and prescripts in the Health Care environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Badenhorst/Mr S Reichert Tel No: (021) 830 3752/3768
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/306 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C MECHANICAL
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 per annum,
Grade C: R1 127 100 per annum
217
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Professional Engineering Services (Location on the grounds of Karl Bremer
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 4-year degree Mechanical
Engineering (BEng/BScEng). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA)as a Professional
Engineer; Or have submitted with ECSA for Professional registration as a
Professional Engineer (proof of payment to be submitted with application) and
compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer will then be
applicable within six (6) months after appointment. Experience: Grade A: At
least 3 years appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the relevant
qualification e.g. BSc (Eng.). Grade B: At least 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration as a Professional
Engineer. Grade C: At least 26 years appropriate/recognisable after
registration as a Professional Engineer. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willing to work overtime, stay away and travel throughout the Western Cape
Province, often at short notice. Willing to assist in other institutions and
directorates. Physically fit and able to inspect buildings and related engineering
infrastructure and machinery. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in design,
specification and maintenance of hospital infrastructure with a strong emphasis
on Mechanical plant as well as Mechanical engineering reticulation and
systems. Appropriate experience in the compilation of specifications and
procurement documentation related to: Heating, ventilation and air-
conditioning (HVAC) in a Health Care built environment. Fire services. Medical
gas reticulation and plant. Wet services. Implementation of green and energy
savings technologies. Knowledge in the compilation of specifications and
tender documentation. Contracts and quality management skills. Knowledge of
risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies and prioritisation. Conversant with
OHSA and regulations pertaining to Mechanical and Electrical installations.
Conversant with NEC contracts especially the Short-, Term service- and
Framework agreement forms of contracts. Computer literate (MS Word. Auto
CAD and Excel). Knowledge and experience in computer aided design of
engineering infrastructure in the health care environment. Registration with
ECSA as a professional Engineer. Sound interpersonal and good verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile specifications and tender documentation within time limits. Manage,
identify projects from inception to close-out. Investigate proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms for Routine and Day-to-Day
Maintanance. Liaise with clients with regard to information and work progress.
Ensure continuity of service schedules, prioritizing work, and consideration of
operational requirements. Ensure Engineering infrastructure, plant and
equipment complies with Occupational Health and Safety Act and Built
environment related regulations and prescripts in the Health Care environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Badenhorst/Mr S Reichert Tel No: (021) 830 3752/3768
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/307 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Cederberg Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as a Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified
218
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in SA. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration as a Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees.
6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in SA.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience after registration as
a Pharmacist with SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in SA. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work as a pharmacist within a multi-
disciplinary team at Cederberg SD. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and
Outlook). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Strategic capabilities and leadership, Program and project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, People Management and
Empowerment, Service Delivery Innovation, Knowledge Management,
Problem Solving and analysis, Communication, Client Orientation and
Customer focus.
DUTIES : Drug supply management in Sub-district. Alternative methods of medicine
distribution in the sub-district. Dispensing. Clinical interventions.
Implementation and monitoring of Policies. Data collection. Support pharmacy
supervisor in supervision and training of junior staff for wards and clinicians.
ENQUIRIES : Sr M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482 1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/308 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: SPECIALTY: ICU (WARD C SPINAL
REHABILITATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing:
General. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to work shifts and after-hours including weekends, public holidays
and night duty. Willingness to rotate/work in other wards within Western Cape
Rehabilitation Centre. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge
and understanding of nursing and health service-related acts, legislation,
policies and practices. Problem solving report writing, liaison and facilitation
skills. Computer literacy in MS package. Knowledge in spinal cord injuries and
the relevant nursing care specialty. Ability to think and function independently
and to work in a multidisciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of quality specialised nursing patient centered care in the spinal
ward. Manage and co-ordinate the implementation of holistic, comprehensive
specialised nursing care in the unit. Provide support for an efficient and
219
effective specialized rehabilitation service. Manage, supervise and guide staff
and keep records and statistics as required. Manage assets, consumables and
financial services effectively. Manage and support education, in-service
training and orientation and practice development initiatives in the unit and
prevent medicolegal risks. Management of human and financial resources.
Information management and support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs IA Jacobs Tel No: (021) 370 2486
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/309 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PHC)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Central Clinic, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be an
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
Diploma qualification in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care (R48). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to travel to and support other Clinics in the Sub-
district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
planning, organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office). In-depth
knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and Departmental Policies.
Knowledge of Human Resources and Financial guidelines and protocols.
DUTIES : Effective management and execution of relevant Curative Programmes at PHC
level. Effective management and execution of relevant Child Health services
and programmes. Effective Management and execution of all Women’s Health
services, including reproductive health and antenatal care. Effective
management and execution of the HAST programme. Effective and efficient
management of the PHC facility, mobile units and satellite Clinics –
management of staff, services and infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 213 4070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/310 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA)
Chef Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to do shift work
and standby duties. Willingness to travel and work between Brooklyn Chest
220
Hospital and DP Marais Hospital. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
interpersonal and leadership skills. The ability to function independently in a
multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to ensure good nursing
care. Ability to manage own work and that of the units reporting to the post.
Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation.
Knowledge of human resource and financial policies. Computer literacy (MS
Word and Excel). Ability to effectively communicate Computer literacy in MS
Office.
DUTIES : Management of service delivery in the specialized TB Hospitals (Brooklyn
Chest &DP Marais Hospital) Resource Management of the nursing department
control and monitor resources and consumables. Ensure a well-managed and
capacitated work force by determining staff development needs and co-
ordinate staff development in collaboration with Human Resource component.
Improved Quality of Care Support the Deputy Manager: Nursing as part of the
Top Management team, with strategic and operational management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G. Mashaba Tel No: (021) 508 7406
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/311 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (NUCLEAR MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Nuclear Medicine. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer in Nuclear Medicine
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Nuclear
Medicine Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Nuclear Medicine
Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Nuclear Medicine Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Nuclear Medicine Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. -Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Nuclear Medicine Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Nuclear Medicine Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be willing to
work shifts as determined by the radiography management. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Must be able to work with Adults and Paediatric patients.
The candidate must have thorough knowledge of radiographic techniques,
radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment safety. Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Windows,
Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Perform PET/CT imaging of high standards. Produce Nuclear Medicine
imaging and laboratory procedures of high standards. Manage workflow on a
Nuclear Medicine information management system Provide optimal patient
care. Ensure quality assurance and application of suitable radiation protection.
Knowledge of use and care of Imaging Equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Klein Tel No: (021) 938 4268 /6002
APPLICATIONS : pplications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
221
time for registration as Radiographer in Nuclear Medicine with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/312 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT (STRATEGIC PLANNING)
Directorate: Strategy, Policy and Planning
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree in the field of information
science, information management, information technology, data analytics,
econometrics, biostatistics (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate experience
in information and data management. Appropriate experience in the health
sector. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced computer skills in MS365. Sound
understanding of planning methodologies and processes. Ability to perform
confidently in a complex environment under pressure. Sound understanding of
measurement sciences with independent-and critical thinking skills. Excellent
data management skills. Advanced computer skills (MS365).
DUTIES : Support the production of statutory plans (Departmental Annual Performance
Plan and Strategic Plan). Develop and manage planning tools, expanding
automation and digitisation. Support medium to long-term strategic planning
processes. Provide technical planning support to the service delivery platform
(District health planning processes and hospital planning processes). Support
planning alignment across the Department. Offer management functions
within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Pienaar Tel No: (021) 483 3539 or lene.pienaar@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/313 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good psychosocial-
and health assessment skills and knowledge of Mental Health Legislation and
Psychopharmacology. Good problem-solving, communication, interpersonal,
planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Actively participate as a specialist nurse in the provision of acute and chronic
mental health care to clients of all age groups at Health Care facilities in the
Sub-district, including hospital and clinics. Make bio-psychosocial health
assessments that are culturally sensitive. Prescribe appropriate medication
within the scope of the mental health care nurse in the rural district setting.
Incorporate and implement the mental health care protocols in the
Stellenbosch Sub-district. Design and implement treatment plans and critically
evaluate outcomes. Competent with implementing the Mental Health Care Act
when applicable and available to train others on how to implement
appropriately. Promote and maintain mental health and manage the effects of
mental illness through education, counselling and psycho-social rehabilitation.
222
Participate in the training and clinical supervision support of other health care
providers. Collaborate cohesively within the mental health care
multidisciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LB Eksteen Tel No: (021) 808-6135.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: in Advanced
Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch
Sub-district for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/314 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2: SPECIALTY (TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic nursing qualification in the relevant speciality as
mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts
and after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health
service-related acts, legislation and policies. Analytical thinking, independent
decision making, problem-solving skills and ability to facilitate and promote
training. Computer literacy (MS Word, GroupWise and Excel).
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources (equipment and consumables). Render support to Nursing
Services i.e. relief duties and act as shift leader as required. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development, compliance to
professional, legal and ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Ensure
efficient and accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and
participation in research activities. Liaise, advise and effectively communicate
with the relevant internal and external stakeholders for continuity of client care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Gaji Tel No: (021) 954 2237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
223
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant Professional Nurse: Speciality posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/315 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A post basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating
Theatre. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health
service-related acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report
writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel,
Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Participate in research and training and development. Provision of effective
support to the Nursing Manager and maintain own professional growth and
self-development. Practice within the realms of IPC, OHAS, Risk Management,
Quality Assurance, GSH hospital protocols, procedures and policies. Utilise
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Provide an
optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and within a
professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Operating Theatre.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J Watson Tel No: (021) 404 5161.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Groote
Schuur Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/316 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
224
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum
of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the
relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
weekends, night duty or extended hours if needed. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Knowledge of protocols, radiation protection, quality assurance and
equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of
a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication
Systems and Radiology Information Systems.
DUTIES : Responsible for the smooth running of Radiography Services and delivery of a
professional service to patients. Produce diagnostic images of high quality.
Render other services as needed for service delivery. Participate in community
services and student training. Ensure quality assurance and apply radiation
protection. Perform clinical and administration duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Cokoyi Tel No: (021) 360-4305
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Radiographer (Diagnostics) posts within the Chief
Director Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/317 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Complex (Brooklyn Chest Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
225
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable health legislation,
relevant acts, policies and procedures. Understanding evidence-based
practice and knowledge of Physiotherapy, Neuro-rehab, Chest Physiotherapy
and TB. Computer literate.
DUTIES : Assessment and treatment of patient referred for Physiotherapy. Management
and completion of patient related administration. To assist with the smooth-
running of Physiotherapy dept / support role to supervisor. Running MDT
Projects, Education and Awareness Programmes: To assist with clinical
guidance of Physiotherapy students and supervision of Junior staff, and to play
an active role in Physiotherapy and TB awareness &/or education. Ensure
continued professional development by keeping abreast with the latest
developments in the field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Goolam Nabie Tel No: (021) 508 7413
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/318 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE
Directorate Financial Accounting
Sub-Directorate: Financial Administration (Section: Payments)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in a financial field. Experience: Appropriate experience in Financial
Accounting environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
in Microsoft applications (MS Word and Excel). Good interpersonal relations,
communication and organizational skills. Knowledge of administration.
Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Supervise and oversee workflow in the Payments Section. Control the
receiving, registering and pre-auditing of BAS/Logis payments. Process and
authorise BAS and Logis payments. Effecting payments within 30 days from
receipt of an invoice as required in section 38(1)(f) of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Ensure monthly reporting on 30-day payment
compliance. Maintaining an invoice tracking tool to ensure payments are
processed timeously. Compile, update and manage a creditors reconciliation
spreadsheet of all creditors. Administering the payments stub/remittances
process. Document Control and safekeeping of processed payments. Keeping
and up to date register of all claims payables and ensure timeous payment of
claims. Ensure effective and timeous reporting of the IYM, IFS/AFS, Internal
Assessment. Manage the claims receivables/payables account. Compiling and
maintaining the Accruals Template for Interim/Annual Accrual reporting.
Optimal usage of SharePoint. Ensuring a proper archiving system per the
National Archives of South Africa Act 43 of 1996.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DA Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483-4398
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
226
POST 17/319 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE & SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance, Revenue, Patient
Administration and Supply Chain. Appropriate experience in budget and
expenditure control, and supply chain management. Experience in the
management of Asset and Liability Accounts. Appropriate proven Supervisory
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) drivers’
license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Extensive knowledge and practical
experience in Logis and Integrated Procurement Solutions (IPS) as well as
good organisational, managerial, leadership skills and an aptitude for working
with financial figures. Extensive knowledge of relevant financial prescripts,
departmental policies, delegations and procedures and Strong people
management skills, ability to work in a team context and motivate team
members. Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer systems
(LOGIS, BAS, IPS, Clinicom & Account Receivable). Excellent communication
skills (verbal and written). Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management for all Supply Chain Management
functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement
policies and processes Responsible for Inventory control, warehouse
management and Asset Management processes. Accurate and timeous
preparation of reports and assist with the compilation of the Annual and Interim
Financial statements. Clearing Asset and Liabilities accounts Supervise
Patient Administration, Medical Records, and Hospital Fees Departments.
Ensure sound Labour practices are executed and implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 313-5220
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/320 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam & Cape Agulhas Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in health Information
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code
B/EB). Willingness to travel and overnight. Willingness to perform overtime
duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Intermediate to
advanced computer literacy especially in MS Office with good numerical and
analytical skills to support report writing, interpretation, analysis of data
management projects/interventions. Advanced knowledge and experience in
the National and Provincial Information Systems and Databases utilised by the
WCG: Health e.g. SINJANI, Clinicom PHCIS, Ideal Health Facility, Business
Intelligence, TIER.net and office 365 environment. Knowledge and experience
in planning and policy development process.
DUTIES : Ensure good quality data, compliance and adherence to legislative target
dates. Regular stakeholder engagement, support and feedback (written and
verbal). Compiling and presentation of monthly Reports and helping with
information management during campaigns. Adhere to national/provincial data
policies and maintain good quality data at all times within the District/Sub-
district. Support with monthly sub-district Monitoring and Evaluation events.
Conduct audits within the Sub-district when assigned or needed. Project
management with regards to Data, IT matters and Systems optimisation where
you apply your technical knowledge. Perform Supervisory function within the
Health Information Management team within the Sub-district and ensure that
staff are skilled to perform their duties. Interrogate Data and generate reports
e.g. via SINJANI, Business Intelligence and other related health systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Van der Westhuizen, Tel No: (028) 514-8400
227
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test which may include a
practical/computer literacy test.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/321 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HRD (PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIRMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma
/Degree in Human Resource related field. Experience: Appropriate experience
in a supervisory capacity. Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Development. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s
license. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
interpersonal skills. Good presentation skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to function in a stressful environment and cope
with a heavy workload. Leadership capabilities, managerial and organisation
skills. Appropriate planning and administration skills. Ability to analyse,
interpret and apply legislation, policies and prescripts.
DUTIES : Management of CET, Internship, Volunteers and Workplace Integrated
Learning. Manage Bursary administration. Orientation/re-orientation of
new/existing staff. Implementing the Workplace Skills Plan and report on
training activities. Supervision of staff. Facilitation of training. Financial
Management and appropriate utilization of training budget. Effective
management and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Martin Tel No: (021) 944 9204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/322 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3: NEPHROLOGY
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Obsevratory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in Nephrology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Clinical Technologist in Nephrology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of
SA qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA
qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Delivering an after-
hours kidney replacement therapy service is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and written). Good
interpersonal skills. Capable of maintaining confidentiality. Ability to work under
pressure and to manoeuvre heavy dialysis equipment. Ability to work
independently and within a team at all levels of authority. Willingness to
participate in training of Clinical Technology students.
DUTIES : Perform renal replacement therapies in chronic and acute settings. Perform
continuous renal replacement therapies, i.e., CVVHD, CVVHDF & SLED.
228
Perform daily RO water checks; do monthly water sampling for bacterial count
and perform tests for the endotoxin levels. Perform Body Composition
Monitoring (BCM) on CKD patients. Perform therapeutic plasma exchange
(membrane plasma separation and centrifugal plasmapheresis). Participate in
on-going quality control and infection control. Working overtime.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Mweli Tel No: (021) 404 3305/2150 or email:
daniel.mweli@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/323 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (PHC)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Sub-district (Stationed at Darling Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub-
District inclusive a Mobile Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as
part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal
relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation
and policies of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources. Participation in
training and research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482-2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/324 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE 3 TO 6
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 3: R335 226 per annum
Grade 4: R397 308 per annum
229
Grade 5: R480 108 per annum
Grade 6: R589 443 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Winelands, De Doorns
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that
allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful
completion of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as
an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a Professional
Council: Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an AEA. Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa as an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 3:
Minimum of 3 years’ experience within your current registration category with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Ambulance Emergency
Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Minimum of 3 years’ experience within your current
registration category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Minimum of 3 years’ experience
within your current registration category with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Paramedic. Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience your
current registration category with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid code C1 driver’s license. Current Professional driver’s permit. Current
registration with HPCSA as an ANA, ECT, PARAMEDIC or ECP.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Excellent knowledge of all levels of Emergency Care protocols.
Computer literacy in the MS Office package. Report writing skills. Physically fit
and able.
DUTIES : Ensure effective supervision and maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and
equipment in line with the Financial and Fleet directives. Supervise and
manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with People Management policies
and practices. Provide an effective administrative support to the Supervisor
when required. Effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care and response
to incidences when required. Ensure effective report writing with regards to
accident and incident reports, loss and theft control incidents and safety
incidents. Ensure effective communication with regards to patients, colleagues,
other services and members of the Public.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jansen Tel No: (044) 80 22 500
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/325 : EMERGENCY CALL CENTRE SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Beaufort -West Communication Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Certificate in Call Centre
Management (NQF Level 4). Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in the Emergency Call Centre environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work shifts and overtime, as needed.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Competency in the CAD (CareMonX)
system. Good leadership, communication, and interpersonal skills. Good
planning, leading, organizing and control abilities. Ability to work well under
pressure. Computer Literacy with MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint, Outlook.
DUTIES : Efficient, effective, and quality management of Centre staff. Cost Effective
Management of allocated overtime needs. Effective Human Resource
Management, Training and Development and the management of Labour
Relations matters. Supervision and Management of all Administrative
230
Requirements. Effective Communication and Liaison with internal and external
clients. Support to colleagues and the Centre Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Arries Tel No: (044) 805-5070
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/326 : SENIOR EMERGENCY CALL CENTRE AGENT (DISPATCHER)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Communication Centre, West Coast Communication Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Emergency/ Medical Call-Centre experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Computer literacy (MS office). Ability to work shifts as
per roster. Appropriate knowledge of CareMonx computer aided dispatching
system. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic knowledge of the
topographical layout of the Western Cape. Good leadership, listening,
supervisory, work organization and prioritization skills. Must be able to utilise
mapping software for resource allocation. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage caller anxiety and stress and provide life-saving telephonic
interventions. Accurately record information in order to ensure data integrity
and subsequent appropriate management intervention. Alert supervisors to
recurrent incidents, as well as exceptional incidents of a critical life threatening
in nature, particularly in the mass casualty context. -Implement any instructions
as per the identified medical dispatch protocol reference system (MDPRS).
Mobilise vehicle resources, control the deployment of resources and react to
delays in the individual status of the deployed vehicles. Manage Major
Incidents according to plan Delta and MIMMS, and mobilize other emergency
services incl. Traffic, Fire SAPS and Disaster Management when required.
Training and supervision of Emergency Communications students during their
elective.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Pedro Tel No: (022) 433 8853, (West Coast District Manager)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/327 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Delft CHC (X1 Post)
Symphony Way CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience inpatient admissions and helpdesk functions. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work 12-hour shifts (i.e. night duty,
weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short notice. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of Primary Health Care Information
System/Clinicom, Hospital Emergency Centre Tracking Information System,
Tier.net. Knowledge of the PFMA and responsibilities linked to finance
management. Knowledge of filing, archiving and disposal process of records.
DUTIES : Admissions of clients in different departments, open new folders, merging of
folders, filing, archiving and disposal of folders. Accomplish key tasks in a
competent and acceptable manner, adhere to sound professional behaviour
and dress code. Ensure accurate and daily capturing on
PHCIS/Tier.net/relevant electronics systems. Ensure clients are admitted
according to the appointment system, assist with queue marshalling. Ensure
good client relation strategies to minimize complaints. Ensure effective and
efficient implementation of all applicable policies, procedures and instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Meyer tel.no. (021) 954 2237 (Delft CHC) Ms. CS Van der Merwe Tel
No: (021) 204 9466 (Symphony Way CDC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
231
NOTE : The pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within
the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from
date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/328 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel to facilities within Khayelitsha/Eastern Substructure. Data
management experience. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Advanced
Computer literacy skills (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access). Knowledge
in departmental systems, i.e. Health Information Systems, Ditcom processes
and health data management. Training skills. Health research coordination.
Good numerical, organisational and analytical thinking skills.
DUTIES : Provide general support to all Information Management and HAST Clerks at
facility level. Perform office administrative role as a member of the Information
Management team. (I.e. minute taking, filling, copies and logistical
arrangements). Participate in health information co-ordinating activities. Assist
with the co-ordination of Ditcom applications and ITS requests. Assist with data
quality monitoring, verification, data/trend analysis and submission. Assist with
preparing presentations and compiling reports. Participate in health research
coordinating activities. Assist with sub-structure research committee initiatives.
Administrative support to supervisors, Managers and Health Facilities within
the Substructure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Jansen Tel No: (021) 360-4702 email:
Janis.Jansen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of the
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/329 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management with specific focus in Asset Management. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to work in a physically demanding environment.
Willingness to work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer Literacy in the Microsoft Package. Knowledge and exposure to the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Regulations and Financial
Instructions and legislations pertaining to Asset Management. Experience of
SCM Systems, i.e. LOGIS (Logistical Information System), EPS (Electronic
Procurement System), CSD (Central Supplier Database), and the WCSEB
(Western Cape Supplier Evidence Bank) and Asset Management Functions.
The ability to work independently and as part of a team. Good interpersonal
and communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform physical stocktaking and determine surpluses and shortages.
Ensuring the loss control process is implemented where cases are identified.
Assist with the preparation of inputs for the AFS as well as the IFS. Assist with
the monthly BAS/Logis Reconciliation/Note 39 & 40 and other asset related
reporting. Perform the general LOGIS system functions pertaining to asset
management. Performing functions related to Demand and Acquisitioning of
Assets and Services, through the applicable Asset & SCM prescripts. Exercise
232
control over the storage of condemned, redundant and/or obsolete
equipment/assets awaiting condemning. Assist with the ALM & SALM
appointments and appointment letters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Willemse Tel No: (021) 402 6459
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date
of the advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
POST 17/330 : PRINCIPAL FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Food Certificate. Experience: Appropriate
Supervisory experience in Food Services Management in in an industrial Food
Service Unit. Inherent requirement of the job: Shifts (including weekends and
public holidays) according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge /skills): Computer literacy (MS word & excel). The ability to
maintain discipline. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge
of pest and infection control. Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Knowledge of Hazard analysis critical control point (HACCP) Good
administrative abilities in the food service system.
DUTIES : Responsible for food services management systems (LOGIS) and relieve the
manager when on leave. Effective utilisation and supervision of the food
services team. Training of the food services team in all aspects relating to daily
tasks. Control of the budget, equipment and stock/supplies Control of food
expenditure by implementation of prescribed guidelines Control and maintain
adequate levels of hygiene, safety and security in the kitchen.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Coetzee Tel No: (021) 658-5407
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 June 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/331 : ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE REF NO: DOI 64/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 - R487 500 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R513 303 - R551 493 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R586 665 - R690 237 per annum (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology (B Tech) in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification;
A minimum of 3-years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as an Engineering Technologist; A valid
code B driving license. Recommendation: Working experience of physical road
maintenance and construction and associated experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Road safety aspects regarding land use,
233
expropriation, road access applications; Relevant legislation and specifications
(Act on advertising and closure of roads - Act 21 of 1940, Road Ordinance 19
of 1976, Ordinance of Land Use Planning 15 of 1985, Disciplinary code and
SABS codes; Project management; Technical design and analysis; Research
and development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal
compliance; Skills in the following: Technical report writing; Networking;
Professional judgement; Problem solving and analysis; Decision making;
Leadership; Self-management; Customer focus and responsiveness; Written
and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and organising;
People management.
DUTIES : Planning and execution of maintenance activities by in-house personnel
towards the maintenance and construction of the provincial network within the
Oudtshoorn DRE; Facilitation and coordination and physical protection of the
proclaimed provincial network within the Oudtshoorn DRE; Support engineers,
technicians and associates in field; Promote safety standards in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Perform administrative and related
functions; Provide inputs to the operational plan; Research and development;
Procurement of maintenance material; Monitor flood damage repair and
maintenance activities on the roads; Quality assurance of technical designs
with specification and authorize/make recommendations for approval by the
relevant authority.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E van Wyk Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/332 : CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST: (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
PROCLAMATION AND ROAD USE REF NO: DOI 43/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 - R487 500 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R513 303 - R551 493 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R586 665 - R690 237 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech) or relevant qualification;
Three years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as an Engineering Technologist; A valid
code B driving license. Recommendation: Public Sector experience focusing
on Roads; Applicable experience in transport infrastructure, roads planning
and/or design; Experience with services within the road reserve; Experience in
the evaluation of traffic impacts on transport infrastructure due to land use
changes; Further studies or formal courses; Experience and a sound
understanding of technical matters across various engineering design stages
for multidiscipline projects. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Project
management; Technical design and analysis knowledge; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Legal compliance;
Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Networking; Professional
judgment; Skills needed: Decision making; Team leadership; Creativity;
Change management; Financial management; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal); Computer skills;
Planning and organising; People management. Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services: Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates in field, workshop and office activities; Promote safety standards in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology;
Solve broadly defined technological challenges through application of proven
techniques and procedures; Develop, maintain and manage current
technologies; and Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying
engineering principles. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile
and submit monthly and quarterly reports; Provide inputs to the operational
plan; and Develop, implement and maintain databases; Research and
development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise; and To liaise with relevant boards/councils on engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Fortuin Tel No: 082 670 4560
234
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/333 : OFFICE MANAGER: PROVINCIAL PUBLIC WORKS REF NO: DOI 71/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in rendering executive support
functions to top management. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding
of the following: Public Service reporting procedures; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Policies, regulations, internal arrangements
and procedures; SMS Manual; Financial Manual; Administrative and financial
management; Budget control and management; Procurement and tender
administration; Human resource management; Broad knowledge of all aspects
pertaining to line functions within the Department. Skills in the following:
Research; Analytical thinking; Financial Management; Project Management;
Managerial; Computer Literacy; Communication; Problem solving;
Presentation; Conflict resolution; Language skills and the ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Sound organisational skills; Good people skills; Basic written
communication skills; Aptitude to work with computers.
DUTIES : Manage engagements; Render line administrative support services; Execute
research, analyse information and compile complex documents for the Senior
Manager/Deputy Director-General (DDG); Provide support to the Senior
Manager/Deputy Director-General (DDG) with regard to meetings; Manage
resources of the office of the Senior Manager/Deputy Director-General (DDG);
Remains up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts/policies and
procedures applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure efficient and effective
support to the Senior Manager/Deputy Director-General (DDG).
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Kok Tel No: (021) 483 3056
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/334 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI 76/2024 R2
SALARY : R397 116 - 467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience in Accounting/
Auditing/Finance or Supply Chain Management. Recommendation: A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Accounting; SCOA; PFMA;
LOGIS; Asset management; Skills needed: Monitoring and evaluation
methods, tools and techniques; Verbal and written communication skills; Ability
to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Analytical, planning and
organising skills; Reliable, self-disciplined and dedicated.
DUTIES : Implement the asset management system, including the establishment and
implantation of the asset management unit and departmental policies and
procedures; Develop and maintain the strategic and annual asset management
plans aligned with the departmental strategy and budget, and in consultation
with Public Works where applicable; Develop and maintain asset registers,
including acquisitions, maintenance management, transfers and valuations;
Develop asset needs assessment, acquisition management, operational and
disposal plan and execute the asset verification, investigate and report on
variances, make necessary recommendations to resolve discrepancies and
update the asset register; Develop, implement and manage mechanism to
safeguard assets, prepare monthly reconciliation with supporting schedules for
the asset registers to the relevant accounting records and resolve uncleared
items; Prepare a business plan for the lifecycle of assets including an analysis
of pricing options using lifecycle costs as well as recommendations on the most
appropriate asset solution; Ensure compliance with relevant legislative,
statutory, regulatory, and supervisory requirements towards the achievement
of component projects and goal.
235
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Matthyse Tel No: (021) 483 4949
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/335 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HS CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DOI 68/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Public Administration or similar field; A minimum of 1-year
relevant experience in a human settlement working environment or similar.
Recommendation: Relevant supervisory experience; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the National Housing Code and Housing Subsidy Programs;
Computer literacy in Ms office package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Written and
Verbal communication skills; People Management skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the capturing, processing and record keeping of EEDBS
applications; Assist with the WCHDDB administration and support function;
Assist with the HR related matters and administrative support to Assistant
Director / Deputy Director / Manager of the sub-directorate; Maintain database
and provide information related to Extended Enhanced Discount Benefit
Scheme (EEDBS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Rose Tel No: (021) 483 2158
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/336 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PHYSICAL RECORD MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DOI 69/2024
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year administrative experience.
Recommendation: Working knowledge of relevant systems; Supply chain
management experience. Competencies: Knowledge of processing payments;
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Good client relations;
Concern for others; Reliable; Self-Management; Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Sub Directorate RM; Provide financial
management Support to Sub Directorate RM; Provide assistance with supply
chain management duties; Maintain the management of human resources;
Maintain relevant registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kruger Tel No: (021) 483 7088
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/337 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AND FLEET
ADMINISTRATION (BELLVILLE) REF NO: DOI 67/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: Working knowledge of Fleet administration, procurement
and supply chain management. Competencies: A good understanding of the
following: Asset Control, store and stock-taking procedures; Obtaining
quotations telephonically or via the Integrate Purchasing System; Applicable
treasury and purchasing delegations; Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and organising; Problem
analysis; Creative thinking; Technical proficiency; Interpersonal relations;
Ability to work under pressure and independently as well as in a team.
236
DUTIES : Procurement and general administration; Data capturing; Administer Licensing
and repair authorities; Administer traffic fines; Administer Machine transfers
and plant management; Loss and control liaison; Logistical arrangements and
administration of auctions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Kleinhans Tel No: (021) 959 7700
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/338 : REGISTRY CLERK: PHYSICAL RECORD MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI
73/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation:
Registry Clerk Course; Relevant experience working in a registry or similar
environment. Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills;
Concern for others; Reliable; Self-Management; Ability to work in a team; Good
client relation skills.
DUTIES : Opening of physical and electronic files and maintenance of file covers; Correct
and neat filing of documentation, including the maintenance of index pages in
physical and electronic files; Preparing mail to be posted by folding and
franking; Assist the supervisor with the allocation of reference numbers; Handle
client enquiries, requests and pending of files; Assist with the administration of
systems by adding folders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kruger Tel No: (021) 483 7088
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/339 : DRIVER WITH SECONDARY FUNCTIONS: PHYSICAL RECORDS
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI 72/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate (Grade 10) or equivalent qualification; A minimum of 1-year
relevant experience; A valid code B (or higher) driving licence with a valid
Professional Driving Permit (PrDP). Recommendation: Good client relations
experience. Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills;
Self-Management; Concern for others; Trustworthy; Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Collection of mail bags from the Post Office and documents from all the office
of the department, using a vehicle or physically; Sorting and distribution of
internal mail to all the offices of the Department; Franking of mail to be posted;
Request vehicle and ensure that it is in a good condition; Assist with the
execution of functions associated with Records management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kruger Tel No: (021) 483 7088
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/340 : MESSENGER: PHYSICAL RECORD MANAGEMENT, REF NO. DOI 70/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Junior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Good
verbal and written communication skills; Good people skills; Must be computer
literate; Sound organisational skills; Self-Management; Concern for others;
Trustworthy; Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Perform messenger functions: Sort and arrange correspondences in the
registry; Collect, distribute and circulate correspondences (mail, parcels,
documents and files); Record and control correspondence register; Sort mail,
files, documents and parcels; Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed; Collect mail, files, documents and parcels from addressor; Deliver
mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees; Ensure that the recipients
sign on the delivery book/register; Record contents and physical addresses in
the delivery book/register. Perform general office assistant tasks: Make copies,
fax and shred documents.
237
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kruger Tel No: 021 483 7088
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm); Or
2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974, Or
3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
POST 17/341 : STORES ASSISTANT: SCM AND FLEET ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DOI
74/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Junior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge: Receiving, recording and issuing of stock (supplies and assets);
Verbal and written communication skills in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape; Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines; Reliable and honest; Problem solving; Able to work independently
and as part of a Team.
DUTIES : Perform administration and stock keeping duties: Assist with stock keeping of
all supplies and stock; Assist with record keeping of registers, procurement,
and staff records; Undertake filing and make relevant photocopies. Perform
Store-person duties: Receive and issue store goods; Keep records of supplies,
equipment and protective clothing received; Organise the supplementing of
supplies in time; Perform stock inspections and keep stock tidy; Update Bin
cards; Safe keeping of the following commodities but not limited to: Petrol/ Oil/
Gas; Tyres/Tubes/ Tools; Paint, Thinners, Bolts and Nuts; PPE Clothing;
Consumables (Black bags, brooms, brushes, hand cleaner, vesting and copy
paper); Cleaning Materials; Fencing Materials, poles, cement, Tar, Guardrails;
Stationery. Issue fuel, lubricants and chemicals: Keep record of fuel and
lubricants issued per vehicle; Issue and receipt and ensure safe keeping and
storage of fuels. Perform general duties: Assist with servicing of plant allocated
to Supply Chain Management; Assist with completing Logs for allocated plants
to Supply Chain Management; Complete the uploading and offloading of stock;
Clean and organise work facility inside and outside yard (store); Assist assets
management with random and annual stock taking; Move and lift heavy tools.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lucinda Arendse Tel No: (021) 959 7700
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm); Or
2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974, Or
3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
238
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2024
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/342 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HOD SUPPORT REF NO: LG 20/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R 561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 5 years relevant experience in rendering a support
service to a Senior Manager/Head of Department/Ministry. Recommendation:
Willingness to work irregular hours when required. Competencies: In depth
knowledge and understanding of the relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and
procedures; Excellent interpersonal relations; Good verbal and written
communication skills; Customer service orientation; Organising and planning;
Confidentiality and discretion; Computer literacy in MS Office packages (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); High level of communication; Ability to work independently
and as part of a team; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to work effectively
in a dynamic office; Stress tolerance; Able to liaise with diverse people and
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services to the Head: Office of the HOD; Provide
support to the Head of Department regarding meetings; Communication and
liaison; Management and supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Benjamin Tel No: (021) 483 3938
POST 17/343 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: LG
23/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year appropriate experience in a management
accounting working environment. Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Public Finance Management
Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review processes; Planning,
budgeting and reporting tools and techniques; Have a strong financial
background specifically in public sector finance; Intermediary computer
competency; Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques.
(essential) Transversal public sector accounting systems. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Interpersonal relations; Flexibility;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Have ability to function
under pressure; Accuracy; Ability to interpret, apply and comment on policies
and legislation; Planning and organising; Numeracy skills; Be able to solve
financial problems; Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Provide assistance with the compilation of the budget; Provide assistance with
the monitoring of revenue and expenditure; Reporting: Coordinate, review,
239
analyse and quality assure the management accounting reporting processes;
Regulatory, policy, governance frameworks and operational advice.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 0607
POST 17/344 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: LG
22/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree at NQF level 7 (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Management Accounting.
Recommendation: Supervisory experience within a management accounting
environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the
following: Have a strong financial background specifically in public sector
finance; Planning, budgeting and reporting tools and techniques; Intermediary
computer competency; Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and
techniques; Transversal public sector accounting systems; Policy
development, and operational management, monitoring and review processes;
Public finance, human resources and management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial
policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Skills in the following:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Interpersonal relations; Flexibility;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Have ability to function
under pressure; Accuracy; Ability to interpret, apply and comment on policies
and legislation; Planning and organising; Numeracy skills; Be able to solve
financial problems; Problem Solving; People management and empowerment.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the budget preparation
process; Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial
supporting information for planning purposes; Coordinate, review, analyse and
quality assure the management accounting reporting processes for financial
year; Regulatory, policy, governance frameworks and operational advice;
Supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 0607
POST 17/345 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TRANSPORT REF NO: LG 21/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: Appropriate administrative and record keeping experience;
Proven computer literacy; Ability to work irregular hours when required.
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following: Transport
management policies and procedures; Understanding the PFMA. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Planning and Organising skills;
Presentation skills; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Ensure proper maintenance of GG vehicles; Ensure proper inspection of GG
and parking area; Responsible for issuing and receiving of GGs (including
hiring); Investigate misuse cases and compile reports; General GG
administration (license, odometer recording, payments of invoices, checking of
logbooks, allocation of traffic violations); Administer GG accident and Losses;
Conduct information sessions with staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Coerecuis Tel No: (021) 483 5122
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
240
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
(SMS pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appointment). Furthermore,
thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications for our
positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all applications.
Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from close of advert
please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/346 : DIRECTOR: PEOPLE EMPOWERMENT REF NO: DOTP 41/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Recommendation: A Post
graduate degree and academic background and/or experience would be to
your advantage. Competencies: Proven knowledge of and working experience
with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that
have a bearing on the line functions. Proven knowledge and understanding of
information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function. Proven knowledge and understanding of
programme and project management. Proven knowledge and understanding
of policy development, and strategy management, monitoring and review
processes. Proven knowledge and understanding of modern systems of
governance and administration. Proven knowledge and understanding of the
global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape. Proven knowledge and
understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector. Proven knowledge and understanding of public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Proven knowledge and
understanding of the policies of the government of the day.
DUTIES : Line Management: Manage the development and implementation of future-fit
skills strategies and skills development programmes: Conduct skills need
analysis. Facilitate the development of workplace skills plans. Liaise with the
relevant Sector Education and Training Authority (SETA) and other statutory
agencies. Facilitate the establishment and functioning of departmental training
committees. Assess the impact of development interventions. Foster people
development partnerships. Coordinate and administrate internships, bursaries,
learnerships and work experience programmes for youth. Facilitate and
coordinate learnerships. Coordinate placement of students for internships.
Facilitate the process of awarding bursaries. Facilitate provincial mentorship
programme. Perform contract management with regard to bursaries and
internships. Strategic Management: Define and review on a continual basis the
purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the Directorate. Drive the
Directorate’s strategic planning process. Drive the development and
management of the strategic and business plans for the Directorate. Evaluate
the performance of the Directorate on a continuing basis against pre-
241
determined key measurable objectives and standards. Report to the Chief
Director on a regular basis on the activities of the Directorate and on matters
of substantial importance relating to operational management support. Monitor
and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in respect of
adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Directorate,
and of the resources (people, finances and assets) employed by it. Foster and
promote a culture of innovation within the Directorate, and the Department.
Diligently perform all duties assigned to the post of Director. Financial
Management: Manage participation in the budgeting process at Directorate
level. Ensure the preparation of the annual and adjustment budgets for the
Directorate. Assume direct accountability for the efficient, economic and
effective control and management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure.
Human Resource Management: Participate in the recruitment of employees in
the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the
Directorate’s strategic and business plans. Motivate, train and guide
employees within the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in
service delivery. Actively manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding
of employees within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LS Esterhuyse Tel No: (021) 483 - 5856
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/347 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOTP 61/2024 R1
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 5 years middle management level experience within risk
management or similar environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Experience
in the design and implementation of risk assessment methodologies.
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
frameworks and working principles; Skills needed: Communication at an
executive management level (verbal and writing); Analytical and problem
solving and Strategic planning.
DUTIES : Policy and Strategy Development: design and review risk management
policies, strategies and implementation plans. Monitor and evaluate progress
against those plans; Deliver Risk Management Services: Direct, lead and
influence risk identification, assessment, prioritisation, and integrate risk
management practises into decision-making processes; Risk Monitoring and
Reporting: Collaborate with relevant departments to ensure timely and
accurate risk information is obtained. Accurately capture and maintain risk-
related data in the system and generate regular reports on risk exposure,
trends and mitigation efforts of Departments being serviced; Risk Governance
and Compliance: Ensure that the Departments comply with all relevant
regulations, industry standards and best practises. Lead risk management
governance initiatives including liaising and presenting within reporting
structures and committee oversight bodies such as Enterprise Risk
Management Committees and Audit Committees; Team Leadership and
development: Lead and manage risk practitioners, providing mentorship and
professional development opportunities. Foster a high-performance team
culture that prioritises collaboration and innovation in risk management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Haq Tel No: (021) 483 8318
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/348 : CHIEF ORGANISATION DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER (ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR): ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR REF NO: DOTP 43/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
242
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Social Sciences, Humanities, Industrial Psychology, Public and
Business Management Science or related; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Project Management, Facilitation
Skills, Culture intervention skills, Change Management. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Functions of the various components of the WCG
to ensure a holistic, integrated approach to interventions; Latest advances in
public management theory and practice; Provincial government functions and
services; Statutory framework governing the broad management of the Public
Service; Mentoring and coaching practices; Financial management prescripts;
Culture and leadership theory and models; Change management
methodologies; Key elements/determinants of organisational performance as
they relate to the field of culture and leadership; Project management. Skills
needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Visio etc); Analytical; Conceptual, interpretive and formulation; Diagnostic;
Facilitation and process consultation; Persuading and Influencing; Creative
problem-solving; Intervention design; Leadership; Leading and supervising;
Delivering results and meeting customer expectations; Planning and
organising; Relating and networking; Presenting and communicating
information; Listening; Team building and strong inter-personal; Written and
verbal communication; Conceptual, interpretive and formulation; Motivation;
Networking; Project management; Research; Ability to work independently and
as part of a team.
DUTIES : Determine, oversee and facilitate individual, team and group interventions for
effective organisation culture change, including Change Navigation and
Values-Alignment interventions; Diagnose organisational issues and facilitate
appropriate behavioural change interventions; Oversee and execute the
provision of leadership development and improvement initiatives; Provide
project management and administration support; Manage People
(management performance, benefits, labour relations, recruitment, selection
and placement).
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Pillay Tel No: (021) 466 9742
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/349 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: DOTP 45/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) In Labour Relations, Human Resource Management or Law; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience as a labour relations officer or similar field.
Recommendation: A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public
Service Act; Public Service Regulations; Labour Relations Act; Human
Resource Management processes. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Planning and execution;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work independently and as
part of a team; Ability to manage the training process as well as facilitating.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate capacity building among employees in respect of
employee relations matters; Do research on employment law and develop
guidelines for WCG; Draft appeals submissions/recommendations; Draft
reinstatement applications; Manage the appeal/training database and compile
statistics monthly, quarterly and annually when required; Render labour law
advisory service to employees on training enquiries, misconduct and grievance
procedures; Provide inputs on policy review or development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Kearns Tel No: (021) 483 2650
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
243
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/350 : CONTROL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR (METRO) REF NO: WCMD 66/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 7 years working experience in the field of Traffic
Law Enforcement of which 3 years must on management level; Registered as
a Traffic Officer or Peace Officer; A valid driving license (Code B or higher); No
criminal record. Competences: Knowledge of the following: Operational
functioning of the Directorate Traffic Law Enforcement; National Road Traffic
Act, 1996 (Act 93 of 1996); National Road Traffic Amendment Act, 2008 (Act
64 of 2008); Firearms Control Act, 2000 (Act 60 of 2000); Criminal Procedure
Act, 1977 (Act 51 of 1977); Firearms Control Regulations, 2004; National Road
Traffic Regulations, 2000; National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; Guidelines
from the Director of Public Prosecutions; Legislation, regulatory frameworks,
policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line functions;
Procurement and tendering processes. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy;
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Conflict Management; Project Management; Planning;
Organising; Leadership; Monitoring and Evaluation; People Management;
Written and verbal communication; Problem-solving; Reports Writing;
Investigations; Negotiation; Interpretation; Legal Evidential; Ability to work
under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines;
Willingness to regularly travel away from the office.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient leadership; Evaluate the activities of the Metro
Region operational plans to ensure strategic alignment with the strategic plan,
budget statements and national and provincial strategies; Co-ordinate the
collection and analysis of regional law enforcement statistics, conduct
research, formulate policy and develop new strategies and models to improve
service delivery; Plan and manage the work of and account for the overall
performance of the region; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 911 0383
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/351 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATING LICENSE PROCESSING REF NO:
WCMD 63/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3-years supervisory experience in an operating
license administration working environment.; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competences: Knowledge of
the following: National Land Transport Act 5 of 2009 and Regulations; Manage
the processing of applications for operating licenses; Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
244
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Public service procedures, processes and systems;
Public finance, human resources and discourse management processes. Skills
needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Customer Care; Reporting;
Problem-solving; Planning; Organising; Creative Thinking; Decision making;
Problem Analysis; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular
hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Process applications for operating licenses; Prepare cases and present at
adjudication meetings; Prepare cases for the cancellation of operating
licenses; Notify operators of renewals; Liaise with planning authorities
regarding supply and demand of public transport services; Liaise with other
stakeholders (e.g. Department of Education regarding learner transport, etc.);
Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PW Davids Tel No: (021) 483 0312/1212
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/352 : INSPECTOR: TRAFFIC LAW ADMINISTRATION REF NO: WCMD 64/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in an auditing or investigation
working environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Examiner of Vehicles,
Examiner for Driving Licences, Proof of Audit function and/ or Investigation
processes. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: National Road Traffic
Act, 1996; Western Cape Provincial Road Traffic Administration Act, 2012;
National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; National Traffic Information System
(eNaTIS); Provincial Road Traffic Regulations; eNaTIS policies, processes and
procedures; Information Management; Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), 1999, National Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury
Instructions. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Reporting; Problem-solving; Planning; Organising; Ability to work under
pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Conduct Audits/Investigations; Conduct follow-up audit inspections on reports
issued by the National Inspectorates; Audit planning; Liaison with departmental
stakeholders in respect of audits/investigations responses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CC Majiedt Tel No: (021) 483 2073
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/353 : INSPECTOR: TRAFFIC LAW ADMINISTRATION (GEORGE) REF NO:
WCMD 65/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in an auditing or investigation
working environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Examiner of Vehicles,
Examiner for Driving Licences, Proof of Audit function and/ or Investigation
processes. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: National Road Traffic
Act, 1996; Western Cape Provincial Road Traffic Administration Act, 2012;
National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; National Traffic Information System
(eNaTIS); Provincial Road Traffic Regulations; eNaTIS policies, processes and
procedures; Information Management; Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), 1999, National Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury
Instructions. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
245
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Reporting; Problem-solving; Planning; Organising; Ability to work under
pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Conduct Audits/Investigations; Conduct follow-up audit inspections on reports
issued by the National Inspectorates; Audit planning; Liaison with departmental
stakeholders in respect of audits/investigations responses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CC Majiedt Tel No: (021) 483 2073
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/354 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FLEET PLANNING AND ACQUISITION
AND FLEET ADMINISTRATION REF NO. WCMD 69/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
fleet experience in Fleet management environment; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but
whno have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation:
C1 licence and Professional Driving Permit (PrDP). Competencies: Knowledge
of the working procedures in terms of the working environment; Skills needed:
Client liaison; Conflict resolution; Responsible driver (i.e. clean record wrt traffic
offences and accidents), Sober habits, punctual (i.e. working hours and tasks
allocated); Service and results orientated; Able to work under pressure; Self-
motivated to work independently and to function in a team; Planning and
organisational skills in order to work with stringent deadlines; Ability to interpret
legislation, policies and contracts, Written and verbal skills to draft submissions
and tender specifications.
DUTIES : Vehicle Replacement: Fleet Planning and Procurement; Procurement of
replacement vehicles for Members of the Western Cape Cabinet; Procurement
of additional vehicles as requested by client departments; Procurement of
additional vehicles for judges; Maintain the GMT vehicle specifications profile
in FleetBase and GoFin systems; Order vehicles on the GMT GoFin system
from vehicle related suppliers; Receipt the vehicle invoice on iProc, and
process the payment of delivered vehicles; Initiate, schedule and monitor the
preparation of new vehicles at GMT Maitland; Administer GMT vehicle related
limited bids and contracts; Maintain the GMT daily and kilometre vehicle tariff
structure in the FleetBase system; Allocation of vehicles to client departments;
Maintain the GMT Fleet Allocation Register; Receive a request from the client
department to change the vehicle registration number from a GG to a CA
number; Maintain the GMT fleet branding policy as prescribed; Administer
applications received from client departments for vehicle take-ins; Administer
applications for alienation of GMT fleet vehicles; Enter into GMTservice
agreements with client departments; Perform secretariat duties for the
subsidised motor vehicle scheme meetings; Perform general administrative;
Fleet administration; Fuel management: Fuel and toll cards; Fuel claims and
duplications; Monitor card usage; Fuel management; Helpdesk over-rides and
faulty cards; Invoices and contract management; Vehicle auction
management; Support functions on auction day; Auction administrative
functions after auction took place; General administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Fourie Tel No: (021) 467 4747
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/355 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PROVINCIAL REGULATORY ENTITY
(GEORGE) REF NO: WCMD 62/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Recommendation:
Relevant administrative support experience in a provincial regulatory entity
working environment. Competencies: Good understanding of the following:
Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics; Legislative framework governing the Public
246
Service; Working procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills
needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer; Planning and
Organising; Customer Care; Reporting; Problem-solving; Creative Thinking;
Decision Making.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Batt Tel No: (044) 813 2902
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/356 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: GOVERNMENT MOTOR TRANSPORT REF
NO: WCMD 70/2025 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
A good understanding of the procedures in terms of an office environment.
Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS Office); Accurate data capturing
capabilities; Ability to maintain accurate record keeping, attention to detail and
reporting to the supervisor; Client liaison skills, Conflict resolution skills,
Responsible driver (i.e. clean record wrt traffic offences and accidents), Sober
habits, punctual (i.e. working hours and tasks allocated); Service and results
orientated; Able to work under pressure; Self-motivated to work independently
and to function in a team; Planning and organisational skills in order to work
with stringent deadlines; Ability to interpret legislation, policies and contract.
DUTIES : Administer the planning, acquiring, conversion, fitment and preparation of the
vehicle fleet; Administer the registration and licencing of vehicles,
deregistration of vehicles and changing of ownership of disposed vehicles;
Administer in-vehicle technology, tracking and control systems in vehicles;
Administer eTag units and fuel/Nev (new energy vehicle)-cards of GMT vehicle
fleet as well as fuel management; Administer vehicle auctions; Administer
vehicle repair, maintenance and fitment processes of the vehicle fleet;
Administer contract management activities with related GMT service providers;
Render an administrative and rental related support service to National and
Provincial Departments in the Western Cape with regards to the provisioning
of Government Motor Transport.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Fourie Tel No: (021) 467 4747
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/357 : DRIVER: FLEET SERVICES REF NO: WCMD 67/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Basic education; A minimum of 7 months relevant experience; A valid code C
driver’s license and a PrDP (Code EC preferred). Competencies: A good
understanding working procedures in terms of the working environment; Good
driving skills and experience as a driver by occupation; Excellent Client liaison
skills, Conflict resolution skills, Responsible driver (i.e. clean record wrt traffic
offences and accidents), Sober habits, punctual (i.e. working hours and tasks
allocated), literate and able to complete forms and reports, Service and results
orientated, Able to work under pressure, Self-motivated to work independently,
and to function in a team, Planning and organisational skills in order to work
with stringent deadlines.
DUTIES : Movement of R&M vehicles on GMT Maitland Premises; Delivering R&M
vehicles to merchants (and collections); Delivering vehicles to GMT’s auction
premises in Paarden Eiland; Assist Fleet Planning and Acquisition with Ad-hoc
driver duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Fourie Tel No: 021 467 4747
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
247
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
or Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
or Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
POST 17/358 : TECHNICAL AID (2 POSTS AVAILABLE), REF NO: WCMD 68/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Junior certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid code C driving
license. Competencies: A good understanding working procedures in terms of
the working environment; Basic vehicle knowledge (i.e. jumpstarting vehicles,
charge batteries, change a flat wheel); Excellent Client liaison skills, Conflict
resolution skills, Responsible driver (i.e. clean record wrt traffic offences and
accidents), Sober habits; Punctual (i.e. working hours and tasks allocated),
literate and able to complete forms and reports; Service and results orientated;
Able to work under pressure; Self-motivated to work independently and to
function in a team; Planning and organizational skills in order to work with
stringent deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the preparation of newly delivered vehicles; Rebranding of vehicles
(at GMT premises); Assist with charging vehicle batteries, and jumpstart
vehicles on site at GMT; Assist with monthly vehicle auction support duties;
Assist with moving and transporting office, vehicle and workshop equipment;
On an ad hoc basis assist with transporting vehicles between the GMT
premises in Maitland, Paarden Eiland and Cape Town.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Fourie Tel No: 021 467 4747
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
or Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
248
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/359 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT REVENUE AND
EXPENDITURE - GROUP 1 AND 2 REF NO: PT 11/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Advanced Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Financial Management, Financial Accounting or Management
Accounting; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in an Accounting or Financial
Management environment. Recommendation: Experience in the following:
Budget analysis and co-ordination; Finance department in Public Sector;
Financial background specifically in Local Government; Must be willing to travel
locally on a regular basis; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. Note:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access
to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Budget process and procedures; Implementation of mSCOA in municipalities;
Financial norms and standards as well as Acts such as MFMA, PFMA, DoRA,
Regulations and Circulars (local and provincial). Skills needed: Written and
verbal communication; Report writing, Strategic planning; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines; Attention to detail and good interpretation of
numbers.
DUTIES : Assess municipal budgets in respect of revenue and expenditure
management; Compile monthly, quarterly and bi-annual in-year monitoring
assessments; Assess MFMA implementation against framework; Provide
technical assistance and research to municipalities; Facilitate training and
other support to municipalities; Assist with the arrangement of Municipal IGR
Functions; Conduct and facilitate municipal visits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Hans Tel No: (021) 483 3845
POST 17/360 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (SYSTEM CONTROLLER): SUPPORTING AND
INTERLINKED FINANCIAL SYSTEMS REF NO: PT 13/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience of financial system
administration and user support; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Recommendation: Experience in the
following: Analyse reporting requirements and document report specifications
with stakeholders; Analyse, develop, test, and implement reports to support
operational processes, including trend analysis and analysis of data that
advances business process improvements. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Local government sphere legislation; MFMA Treasury Regulations
Accounting Principles; Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems that
aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives, and collective agreements; Functioning
of the Province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
249
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills needed: Data
analytical skills; Skills development facilitation; Proven computer literacy;
Communication (Written and verbal) skills; Ability to deal with enquiries on
financial system matters.
DUTIES : Render transversal support and maintenance of the financial systems and
system access security and controls; Provide support in the management of
the reporting processes of the financial systems; Provide capacity building in
Provincial Departments to enhance the effective utilization of the financial
system; Implementation of applications and financial systems; Monitor
compliance and enforcement of prescribed legislation, policies and guidelines
relating to all financial system processes; Operational and financial
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Xolani Spelete Tel No: (021) 483 5650
POST 17/361 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT PUBLIC FINANCE, REF
NO: PT 10/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in office administration and rendering support to Senior Manager;
A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Recommendation: Willingness to work irregular hours and travel if and
when needed. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation,
policies, prescripts and procedures; Relevant software packages; Basic
financial administration. Skills needed: Interpersonal relations; Written and
verbal communication; Customer Service Orientation; Team player /
membership; Ability to work effectively in a dynamic office; Ability to work in a
highly pressured environment; Ability to liaise with diverse people; Attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support services; Provides secretarial/receptionist
service to the manager; Provide support to manager regarding meetings;
Supports the manager with the administration of the budget; Analyse the
relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Coetzee Tel No: (021) 483 5715
POST 17/362 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT (PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST) REF NO: PT 26/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Finance,
Economics or Supply Chain Management; A minimum of 3 years functional
experience in Supply Chain Management or Financial management; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Recommendation: Experience in the following: South African marketplace;
Providing advice, guidance and support on implementation of Supply Chain
Management policy, norms and standards. Competencies: Knowledge of the
Public sector Supply Chain Management legislation, policies and procedures;
Skills needed: Analysing; Presenting and Communicating Information:
Planning and Organising; Adapting and Responding to Change; Reporting;
Written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Develop and implement strategies for Supply Chain Management capacity
development; Provide Supply Chain Management client support to provincial
departments, public entities and external stakeholders; Manage assistance to
suppliers and capacity building; Manage information and report on analysis of
client performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Cupido Tel No: (021) 483 5486 / Lee-Anne.cupido@westerncape.gov.za
250
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 June 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/363 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY DEVELOPER: SOCIAL RELIEF
REF NO: DSD 34/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R388 110 – R436 110 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
Grade 2: R453 201– R514 470 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
Grade 3: R535 095 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); Grade 1: A minimum of 8 years recognisable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 2: A
minimum of 18 years recognisable experience in Community Development
after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 3: A minimum of 28 years
recognisable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. Recommendation: A valid code B (or higher) driving
licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy Analysis and
development; Community development; Legislation of local government;
Integrated Development Planning; Legislation, policies and procedures
governing Non-Profit Organisations (NPO); Management of, as well as types
of programmes relevant to NPOs. Skills in the following: Mentoring and
training; Facilitation skills; Project Management skills; Planning and organizing;
Networking skills; Communication (written and verbal); Professional
counselling skills; Financial management; Presentation skills; Monitoring and
evaluation skills; Inter-sectoral collaboration and partnership skills;
Intergovernmental relations skills; Ability to compile complex reports; Contract
Management.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain community development policies: Monitor,
interpret and review legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether
the legislation, policies and procedures are still relevant and comply with
current requirements; Develop proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts,
policies and procedures and develop new policies/procedures where required.
This includes costing the policies; Develop, implement and monitor youth
development programmes; Manage social relief projects. Keep up to date with
new developments in the community development field. This would, inter alia,
entail the following: Study relevant journals and publications to ensure that
cognisance is taken of new developments; Monitor and study the social
services legal and policy framework continuously; Liaise/attend meetings with
other departments, non-government institutions and relevant stakeholders to
take cognisance of the latest developments in the relevant fields; Engage in
continuous development activities; Research and development related to
social relief programmes; Perform the administrative functions required in the
unit; Stakeholder engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Arnolds Tel No: (021) 483-6657
POST 17/364 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER: SERVICES TO FAMILIES REF NO:
DSD 36/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R453 201 – R514 470 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
Grade 2: R535 035 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
251
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Formal Tertiary Qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions; Compulsory registration with SACSSP as a Social
Worker; A minimum of 8 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP; A valid code B (or higher)
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy Analysis and
development; Community development; Legislation of local government;
Integrated Development Planning; Legislation, policies and procedures
governing Non-Profit Organisations (NPO); Management of, as well as types
of programmes relevant to NPOs. Skills in the following: Mentoring and
training; Facilitation skills; Project Management skills; Planning and organizing;
Networking skills; Communication (written and verbal); Professional
counselling skills; Financial management; Presentation skills; Monitoring and
evaluation skills; Inter-sectoral collaboration and partnership skills;
Intergovernmental relations skills; Ability to compile complex reports; Contract
Management.
DUTIES : Conduct Financial and Governance assessments for existing and new NPOs;
Financial and Governance Oversight; Administration and Analysis of Non-
Financial Data (NFD); Compliance Monitoring and Regulatory Adherence;
Conduct Stakeholder Engagement and Rapid Response.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Kwakwini Tel No: (021) 483 4115
POST 17/365 : SOCIAL WORKER: SERVICES TO FAMILIES REF NO: DSD 35/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid code B (or higher) driving licence. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Supervision Framework for Social Workers;
Human behavior and social systems and skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social well-being;
Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Relevant legislations, policies
and prescripts (norms and standards); Social dynamics, work values and
principles; Developing and empowering others. Skills in the following:
Challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination
and exclusion; Written and verbal communication; Report-writing; Self-
management; Motivation; Good planning and organizing; Problem solving and
analytical; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation
and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for,
and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability
to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively;
Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards protecting
people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to
mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance with registration requirements of NPOs (regulatory
frameworks); Monitor and review services rendered by the NPO in line with the
Provincial /National policy frameworks; Administration of the Non-Financial
Data (NFD) / Performance Information process; Monitoring the implementation
252
of the Service Delivery Improvement plans; Rapid response following
complaint/enquiries about NPOs, or a concern raised by a programme.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Payne Tel No: (021) 483 5798
POST 17/366 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (VARIOUS
POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO EAST) REF NO: DSD 07/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Arendse Tel No: (021) 763 6206
POST 17/367 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (ATLANTIS),
REF NO: DSD 08/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500
POST 17/368 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (VARIOUS
POSTS AVAILABLE IN METRO SOUTH) REF NO: DSD 09/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
253
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Brink Tel No: (021) 834 7000
POST 17/369 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (VARIOUS
POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE WINELANDS/OVERBERG) REF NO: DSD
11/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and
Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports);
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E De Villiers at (072) 332 1117
POST 17/370 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (BREEDE RIVER) REF NO:
DSD 37/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
254
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Recommendation: A valid Code B (or higher) driving licence. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Supervision Framework for Social Workers;
Human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at the points
where people interact with their environments in order to promote social well-
being; Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Relevant legislations, policies
and prescripts (norms and standards); Social dynamics, work values and
principles; Developing and empowering others. Skills in the following:
Challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination
and exclusion; Written and verbal communication; Report-writing; Self-
management; Motivation; Good planning and organizing; Problem solving and
analytical; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation
and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for,
and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability
to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively;
Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards protecting
people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to
mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (case work, group work and community
work); Attend to matters that results in or stems from social instability in any
form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers; Continuous Professional
Development: Keep up to date with new developments in the social work and
social welfare fields; Perform all administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Van Brakel Tel No: (023) 348 5300
WESTERN CAPE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/home/, via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 10 June 2025
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae, applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
255
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/371 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PLANNING & STRATEGY REF NO: 75
Directorate: Business Strategy & Stakeholder Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum. An all-inclusive salary package consists of a basic
salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The remainder of
the package may be structure according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-degree or
higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Business
Administration, Public Management, or related field; A minimum of 3 years
relevant management experience. Knowledge of public sector planning
frameworks and performance management systems. Recommendation: An
appropriate post graduate qualification in a relevant field; Experience in
education sector planning and management will be an advantage. The
Western Cape Education Department has an opportunity for a suitably qualified
and competent individual to manage the coordination and facilitation of the
business planning function within the Directorate Business Strategy and
Stakeholder Management. Knowledge: In-depth knowledge of public sector
planning frameworks, legislation, strategic management processes and
methodologies; Knowledge of the Framework for Managing Programme
Performance Information; Familiarity with Government-wide Monitoring and
Evaluation Systems; Understanding of education policies and priorities.
Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
Regulations; Project management methodologies. Change management
approaches. Skills: Strategic thinking and leadership; Advanced planning and
organizational skills. Financial management; Project management; Analytical
and problem-solving abilities; Networking and network formation skills;
Conceptual and formulation skills; Advanced report writing and communication
skills; Presentation skills; People management and team leadership;
Negotiation and conflict resolution. Advanced computer literacy (MS Office
suite, especially Excel and PowerPoint). Data Analysis.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction for departmental planning processes, ensuring
alignment of operational plans with strategic objectives and compliance with
legislative frameworks for non-financial performance information; Develop and
implement department-wide strategic and operational planning frameworks;
Lead the departmental strategic planning processes and ensure alignment with
provincial and national priorities; Coordinate the development and review of
Annual Performance Plans and Strategic Plans; Ensure compliance with
performance information management frameworks and standards; Provide
advice and guidance to senior management on strategic planning matters;
Provide advice on the alignment of departmental strategic and annual
performance plans as well as integrated development plans with provincial
strategic priorities; Manage stakeholder relationships relevant to business
planning and performance reporting; Develop and maintain systems for
efficient collection and verification of performance information; Lead and
manage the Business Planning team. Provide support to education districts
regarding planning and reporting processes. Ensure integration of planning
with budget processes; Support the monitoring and reporting systems for non-
financial performance information; Support the compilation of quarterly and
annual performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. IE de Vega Tel No: (021) 467-9323
POST 17/372 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WORKFORCE PLANNING REF NO: 116
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum. An all-inclusive salary package consists of a basic
salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The remainder of
the package may be structure according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year post school qualification.3 years middle management experience. To
manage the development, establishment and maintenance of the workforce
planning service. Knowledge of post provisioning and workforce planning
related process; Knowledge of post provisioning and workforce planning
related systems. Knowledge: Knowledge of related prescripts Ensure
compliance with educator/public servant prescripts; Labour Relations Act
256
(LRA), 66 of 1995; Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998; Public Service
Act, 1994;South African Schools Act 84 of 1996, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997, Knowledge of other related legislation.
Skills: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy Language skills; Project
Management; Accounting Finance and Audit; Legal Administration. Other:
Managerial skills; Leadership skills; Interpersonal skills |Analytical skills;
Problem solving; Decision Making; Facilitation and Presentation. skills; Conflict
resolution; Organising; Good written and oral communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan, organise, control and manage the basket of Educator posts process for
Ordinary Public Schools and Ordinary Special Schools. Plan, organise, control,
manage the coordination and reporting on the implementation of workplace
planning interventions. Plan, organise, control and manage the development
and maintenance of norms and standards for institution-based employees
(Educator and Public Servants). Oversee and coordinate Organisation
Development (OD) investigations and job evaluations. Manage the human
resources of the component to achieve the pre-determined performance
indicators and service delivery imperatives, motivated, competent, appreciated
and performance orientated staff and sound labour relations. Plan the
component’s budget and manage expenditure, through responsible
implementation of policies, practices and decisions in order to achieve
component objectives effectively and efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 457 2475
POST 17/373 : ENGINEER: CIVIL REF NO: 237
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (OSD). An all-inclusive salary package consists of a
basic salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structure according to your personal needs.
Salary depending on years of experience after registration as a professional
with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering; Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA;
Three years’ experience post qualification; Valid Driver’s Licence; Computer
literate. Job Summary: Assist with the provision of civil engineering inputs and
guidance which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering
applications for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
norms, standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). Knowledge: Relevant experience: Three years post
qualification and relevant experience working on Infrastructure Projects from
inception to completion. Candidate must be able to work independently and
within a team. Need a good understanding of infrastructure planning and
systems that can contribute towards the timeous development of education
infrastructure. Need a good understanding of and experience in project
management. Skills: Candidates must have the ability to prepare reports and
draft submissions. Contribute towards the development of strategies and
systems for the planning and implementation of education infrastructure. Plan
and manage the implementation of infrastructure projects.
DUTIES : Assist to develop and maintain functional and technical norms and standards
from an engineering perspective. Perform condition assessments and
credibility of technical information. Adhere to environmental and occupational
health & safety aspects. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile briefing documentation
and specifications from an engineering perspective. Assist to prepare the User
Asset Management Plan. Make inputs to the Construction Procurement
Strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Conduct post
project and post occupancy evaluations. Candidates must be able to undertake
research related to innovative and sustainable infrastructure development and
be able to plan and implement projects related to this.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 17/374 : ARCHITECT PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 69
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R761 157 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body
CENTRE : Cape Town
257
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Architecture degree. Registration with the SACAP as a
Professional Architect. Three years of relevant experience post qualification.
Valid Driver’s License. Computer literate. Three years post qualification and
relevant experience in working on infrastructure projects (both capital / new
and maintenance / existing) from inception to completion. To assist to manage
the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and projects in
line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS).
Knowledge: Needs a good understanding of- and in project management.
Needs a good understanding of infrastructure planning and contribute towards
timeous development of education infrastructure. Experience with institutional
systems / processes. Candidate must be able to operate independently and as
part of a team. Skills: Planning and organizing, research and technical report-
writing and programme / project management skills.
DUTIES : Prepare the construction procurement strategy and the Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or approve Packages/Individual
Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers
and Contractors. Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP). Monitor the implementation of
Programmes /Projects and budgets. Approve Project Stage reports and
designs. Manage the interface between the end-user/community structures
and Implementing Agents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 17/375 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEARNER TRANSPORT SCHEMES (LTS) REF
NO: 71
Directorate: Institutional Resource Support (In Lib Serv)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable, recognised B degree or three-year post matric qualification; plus
3 years appropriate supervisory experience in Learner Transport or related
field. Excellent verbal and written communication skills in at least two of the
official languages of the Western Cape Province. A valid Code B motor vehicle
driver’s licence. Competencies: The successful candidate must have the
following proven experience, knowledge and skills in order to successfully
function in this specific position: Experience: Supervisory experience; the
ability to communicate at all levels; to work independently as well as in a team.
Knowledge: Must have knowledge of modern systems of governance &
administration, relevant policies, legislation, constitutional and institutional
arrangements governing the public sector. Must possess strong analytical
skills; budgeting and finance administration skills; monitoring and reporting
skills; planning, organizing and people management skills as well as skills in
the development and application of administration processes and procedures.
Skills: Excellent verbal and written communication skills in at least two of the
official languages of the Western Cape Province. Computer literacy skills in MS
Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, etc.); Statistical and Planning
competencies; Must have the ability to conceptualise and implement innovative
ideas; Personal attributes: Must be polite, reliable, self-motivated and have
good interpersonal skills. Must be honest, trustworthy and respectful and
possess cultural awareness and sensitivity, be flexible and demonstrate sound
work ethics. Must have aptitude to write and be sound with figures. Must be
capable of working under pressure and meet strict deadlines. Must have the
ability to persuade, influence and handle conflict.
DUTIES : Manage the planning and implementation of learner transport schemes;
Compilation and Maintenance of Learner Transport databases; Effective
monitoring of the testing of Learner Transport Vehicles; Manage the receipt
and Processing of Learner Transport applications; Ensure the delivery of
learner transport services; Monitor and evaluate learner transport Services;
Perform managerial tasks with regard to the sub-directorate including the
motivation, training, mentorship and guidance of subordinates to achieve and
maintain excellence in service delivery; Actively manage the performance and
evaluation of subordinates; Actively assist in managing and promoting the
maintenance of discipline within the sub-directorate; Manage policy issues with
regard to the functions of the component; Communicate on managerial level
with regard to the functions of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Keith Lackay Tel No: (021) 467 2327
258
POST 17/376 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEARNING TEACHING SUPPORT MATERIAL
(LTSM) REF NO: 72
Directorate: Institutional Resource Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma); a minimum of
3 years supervisory experience in a supply chain management environment; a
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. Competencies: Extensive knowledge
of SCM Practices, processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement,
National and Provincial Treasury regulations and financial
legislation. Extensive knowledge of LOGIS and ePS systems. Working
knowledge of Standard Chart of Accounts. Skills: Computer literacy in MS
Word, Excel, Access and Outlook (or similar e-mail tool); Good verbal and
written communication skills; organisational and planning skills; report writing,
problem solving and numeracy skills; strategic planning; presentation
skills. Attributes: Ability to work within a team as well as independently whilst
focussed on achieving targets. Plan, prioritize and organize work whilst
functioning under pressure to handle high volumes. Meet strict deadlines.
Disciplined, orderly, systematic and courteous with stakeholders. Liaise with
stakeholders at all levels. Effective communication and good interpersonal
relationships.
DUTIES : Assist with development of Learner Teacher Support Material (LTSM) policies
and procedures. Assist with developing operational and process plans relating
to LTSM. Interpret, implement and ensure compliance with legislated
Department of Basic Education (DBE), Supply Chain Management (SCM),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and LOGIS regulations, processes
and documents. Implement, monitor and evaluate work processes and
registers of teams. Provide development, guidance and training in LOGIS
processes. Determine specifications for sourcing of LTSM goods and
services. Identify and implement a strategic sourcing strategy for LTSM goods
and services. Facilitate the contracting of the sourcing strategy for LTSM
goods and services. Facilitate and report on the procurement and delivery of
LTSM to schools and Directorates. Monitor commitments and budgets of
LTSM. Authorising of payments and orders. Reporting of SCM processes,
LTSM activities and budgets. Respond to audit enquiries. Provide inputs for
AFS. Management and supervision of officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Betz Tel No: (021) 467 2804
POST 17/377 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT INCUBATOR REF NO: 74 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Business Strategy & Stakeholder Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year qualification (National Diploma / Bachelor's Degree or
higher qualification. At least 3 year’s relevant experience in project
management. Recommendation: a valid driver's licence. Knowledge:
Extensive knowledge of applicable policies, legislation, guidelines, standards,
procedures and best practices; Expert knowledge of strategic management
processes; Knowledge of global, regional and local political, economic and
social affairs. Skills: Presentation skills; Policy formulation; Policy analysis;
Communication (written and verbal); Organising; Dispute resolution/conflict
management; Interpersonal relationships; Analytical thinking; Strategic
thinking; Administration skills; Project management; Ability to analyse,
conceptualise and implement policy; Research. Networking and highly
articulate. Time management.
DUTIES : Identification of Projects/programmes that drive strategic departmental goals.
Assist with conducting feasibility studies for proposals/ideas emanating from
EXCO. Identify transversal networks required. Provide input into the
preparation of strategic plans and proposals for consideration by EXCO. Assist
in Identifying, cultivating and soliciting support for incubation efforts. Provide
input into concept documents/project plans including resources, budget and
operations required. Assist with the preparation of Management Action Plan for
all activities required. Prepare all necessary documentation i.e. submissions,
case studies, budgets. Form part of the implementation team for project roll-
out and compiling monitoring reports. Compile monitoring report on progress
of implementation. Liaise and communicate to relevant stakeholders and
259
agents of change. Assist with the Identification of cross-functional agents and
develop working relationships with same. Facilitate the development of working
relationships with transversal agents. Assist with the develop clear business as
usual plan with specific timelines for project handover. Support project
champions in BAU spaces. Assist with transfer of skills from incubation team
to BAU unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. IE de Vega Tel No: (021) 467-9323
POST 17/378 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSESSEMENT AND EXAMINATIONS
SYSTEMS REF NO: 81 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant B. Degree Valid driver’s license 3-5 years relevant experience in the
information systems field Experience in the Examinations and/or Assessments
field. To coordinate the development, implementation and management of
examination and assessment information systems for the Chief Directorate.
Knowledge: Public Service legislation, including POPI, PAIA, PAJA Advanced
knowledge of the policies and processes governing Examinations and
Assessments (National and Provincial) Advanced knowledge of the relevant
policies and prescripts relating to information systems and data governance
Advanced knowledge of information systems, ICT and data governance
Management and people management principles Project management Skills:
Computer literacy People management and empowerment Planning and
organising Communication (written, verbal and liaison) Problem-solving
Facilitation and presentation skills Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development, implementation and review of policies to govern
examination and assessment information systems. Coordinate and monitor the
development of new assessment and examinations systems and the optimal
implementation of existing systems in the Chief Directorate, in collaboration
with Ce-I and SITA. Coordinate and oversee assessment and examinations
user management services. Coordinate and oversee assessment and
examinations training in IT systems, capacity building and knowledge-sharing
practices. Coordinate the Disaster Recovery Plan for the Chief Directorate in
respect of examination and assessment systems in collaboration with relevant
stakeholders. Supervise the administrative and technical support in the
development, implementation and management of examination and
assessment information systems for the Chief Directorate. People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Bredenkamp Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 17/379 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION REF NO: 89
Directorate: communication
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year qualification (NQF6) in communication and translation
studies, linguistics or related studies. At least 5 years’ experience as a
Language Practitioner in editing and translation; Knowledge of communication
policy and strategies; Proficiency in at least two of the three official languages
of the Western Cape. Recommendation: A post-graduate qualification in
linguistics, a language or a language-related field. Knowledge of Translation
Memory Software.
DUTIES : Manage and lead the Language Services Unit of the Western Cape Education
Department; Responsible for monitoring the implementation of the relevant
language policy; Facilitate the editing and translation of documents and
promote multilingualism; Supervise quality control of documents; Keep record
of the documents processed by the unit; Provide a language advisory service
to Departmental employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Merton Tel No: (021) 467 2707
POST 17/380 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MISCONDUCT, DISPUTES AND GRIEVANCES
REF NO: 95
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
260
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised degree or diploma; valid codes B or EB driver’s
licence; Minimum of 3 years’ experience in Labour Relations in the Public
Sector. Knowledge: Extensive experience regarding the grievance and dispute
processes, collective bargaining as well as the HR regulatory framework with
regard to public service Extensive experience in dealing and/or managing
discipline/misconduct in the Public Service; Knowledge of related statutes in
the Education Sector. The ability to work under pressure, to reason clearly and
logically. Proven supervisory experience Willingness to travel frequently and
work irregular hours. Skills: Computer literacy skills. Good written and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Management and processing of grievances, disputes and misconduct cases.
Supervise functions of labour relations officers; exercise financial control;
investigate matters and represent the WCED when required to do so. Preside
at misconduct hearings (CS educators and Public Service). Represent the
WCED at various collective bargaining structures,(CS Educators and Public
Service Personnel), Train line functionaries in labour related matters,
Implement and monitor operational labour relations policies, Keep abreast of
change and developments in labour relations and build capacity in order to
facilitate labour peace in the institutions managed by the WCED.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L-A Bathgate Tel No: (021) 467 2848
POST 17/381 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT COORDINATOR: GOVERNANCE REF NO:
108
Directorate: Knowledge and Information Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : cape town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognised, minimum 3-year tertiary qualification in IT or IT
related field with at least 3 years’ experience in ICT. ICT governance
certification i.e. COBIT, ITIL is preferable. A valid driver’s licence. Job
Summary: To manage, coordinate and monitor ICT service delivery and
support in the schools? and WCED corporate environment. Knowledge:
Proven knowledge of: ICT governance best practices, theory and
methodology; budgeting and cash flow; Supply Chain processes in public
service; E-government and enterprise ICT programmes/projects; Project
management and coordination; Applicable legislation such as the PFMA,
Educators? Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, SITA Act and
Regulations, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Electronic
Communications and Transactions Act, WAN (Wide Area Network) and LAN
(Local Area Network) and wireless technologies knowledge; managing of
vendors and clients will be advantageous. Skills: Strong research skills; strong
conceptual and formulation skills; exceptional writing and verbal
communication skills; well-developed project management skills; innovative
problem solving skills; analytical skills; strategic thinking and planning skills;
presentations skills; negotiation skills; sound organisational and planning skills;
sound interpersonal skills; advanced computer proficiency; training skills.
DUTIES : Develop, interpret and implement policy, practice, procedure and standards,
with regards to National and Provincial ICT governance for Information
Systems and ICT solutions within the WCED; Ensure WCED compliance with
National and Provincial ICT governance policy, framework and standards;
Manage, monitor and advise the WCED on ICT Service Level Agreements with
vendors; Maintain records of ICT spending to WCED schools? and corporate
environment. Accurate and timeous reporting of ICT governance issues within
the WCED and WCG (Western Cape Government). Represent the department
at internal and external ICT committees. Monitor the provisioning of e-
Administration equipment and connectivity subsidy disbursement to schools.
Coordinate the demand for ICT services and equipment within the organization
and present it to various governance forums. Liaise with the Provincial service
partners in terms of managing operational risks. Coordinate processes to
ensure ICT security compliance and that audit requests are adequately
resolved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Jacobs Tel No: (021) 467 9322
261
POST 17/382 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 111 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Human Resources or an equivalent qualification
plus a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Human Resources
Administration. Recommendations: Experience in public service and education
environment with specific reference to applicable employment and conditions
of service legislation; proven communication skills in at least two official
languages of the Western Cape Province. Knowledge: Knowledge of: Relevant
Education and Public Service Acts, Policy documents, Public Finance
Management Act, Education Law and Policy, CORE, Personnel Administration
Measures (PAM) & Public Service (PS) Regulations, Collective Agreements,
Resolutions and PERSAL. Skills: Managerial, Leadership and Interpersonal
skills; Written and Verbal Communication skills; Analytical, Problem Solving,
Decision Making, Facilitation and Presentation skills; Conflict Resolution;
Organising skills; Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software: MS
Office Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint); MS Outlook, Internet.
DUTIES : Exercise managerial functions pertaining to the post, including but not limited
to assisting the Deputy Director. Manage and supervise staff members,
including but not limited to training, monitoring and evaluation. Manage and
supervise general administrative duties with regard to service benefits and
conditions of service. Implementation of policies and procedures related to HR
Administration. Manage and supervise functions pertaining to leave
administration. Manage and supervise the exit management service. Manage
and supervise functions pertaining to appointments & salary administration;
and Perform more complex work regarding the functions above.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 17/383 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES REF NO:
118
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year post school qualification, 5 years relevant experience. Job
Summary: To operationalise and provide people empowerment services.
Knowledge: Knowledge of people empowerment related process., Knowledge
of people empowerment related systems, Knowledge of related prescripts,
Ensure compliance with educator/public servant prescripts, Labour Relations
Act (LRA), 66 of 1995, Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998, Public Service
Act, 1994, South African Schools Act 84 of 1996, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997, Knowledge of other related legislation.
Skills: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Language skills, Managerial
skills; Leadership skills; Interpersonal skills; Communication skills (written and
verbal); Analytical skills; Problem solving; Decision Making; Facilitation and
Presentation skills; Conflict resolution ;Organising.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the Workplace Skills Plan (WSP). Operationalise the
Human Resource Development (HRD) functions (Bursaries, Inductions and
Internships). Operationalise all Leadership and Development Interventions.
Operationalise all people empowerment related programmes for the
department. People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2475
POST 17/384 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING REF NO: 122
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3- year relevant experience. To oversee the
administering of monitoring assessments of NGOs. Knowledge: Public
administration, Applicable legislative and regulatory requirements, policies and
standards, Norms and standards, Project Management, Principles and
processes for providing customer services. Including customer needs
assessment, meeting quality standards for services and evaluation of customer
262
satisfaction, Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques,
Business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource
allocation, human resources modelling, leadership techniques, production
methods and coordination of people and resources, Relationship
management. Skills: Professional Competencies, People Competencies,
Results Competencies, Business/Organization Competencies.
DUTIES : Develop monitoring and review systems. Evaluate the current systems and
recommend improvement, develop monitoring tools and systems, oversee the
implementation of monitoring tools. Oversee Financial and Governance
Assessment for existing and new NPOs. Oversee site visits, quality assure
monitoring reports, quality assure the completion of the appraisal grid. Oversee
the monitoring and review of services rendered by the NPO. Ensure the
analyses of progress reports. Oversee and quality assure the administering of
quarterly compliance assessments including site visits Oversee and quality
assure the administering of annual compliance assessments including site
visits, Quality assures monitoring reports Ensure the development of corrective
measures Verify the data submitted via reports Draft guidelines on required
monitoring processes and procedures, Support managers and other staff in
their monitoring actions, including the setting. of standards, Communicate and
apply the Batho Pele concept in service delivery. Human Resource
Management: Motivate, train and guide staff within the component, to achieve
and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively manage the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff to achieve agreed KRAs that derive from
components plans. Monitor information capacity building within the Division.
Promote sound labour relations within the Division. Actively manage and
promote the maintenance of discipline within the Division. Perform all the
managerial tasks with regard to the Division Give direction to and manage
policy issues with regard to the functions of the components under his/her
command. Communicate on managerial level with regard to the functions of
the component. Assess data and information Review and revise the
information recorded on the activation grid/ indicator description manual/ NFD
reporting template and approve. Compile report send to supervisor for
verification and submit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/385 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF NO:
148
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or degree plus 3 years administrative experience. A
valid driver's license. To facilitate and coordinate developmental support to
Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools (including hostels) with respect to
school management and governance. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
Education departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Western Cape
Policy for the Management of Admission. Knowledge of SCM processes and
procedures. Knowledge of finance (business planning). Knowledge of project
planning. Knowledge of School administrative processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (DMIS, CEMIS, SAMI, EIS,
IMS). Skills: Written and verbal communication in 2 official languages of the
Western Cape. Computer literacy. Project Planning and Organising skills.
Presentation and facilitation. Report writing skills (specifications and
submissions). Interpretation, Interpersonal, Problem solving and Financial
skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate support to Public Schools (including hostels) with the
implementation of new/ existing financial-, records and school governance and
management policies, guidelines and instruments. Coordinate and monitor all
financial-, records-, governance and management training interventions.
Manage learner admission at district level. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
POST 17/386 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF NO: 159
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : George
263
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) with Auditing/Financial Management as subjects or
a Degree in Auditing/Financial Management plus 3 years relevant experience
in auditing or financial management environment. Driver's license.
Communication in two of the official languages of the Western Cape.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). South African schools
Act, No. 84 of 996. The Western Cape Provincial School Education Act, No.12
of 1997. National Treasury Regulations, government Gazette No. 35617 on
Amended National Norms and Standards for Schools Funding (NNSSF), 2012.
Manual: Basic Financial System for Public Ordinary Schools. Treasury
Guidelines: Preparation of Estimates for Medium Term Expenditure
Framework. Budget Prescriptions promulgated in Provincial Gazette 6103 of
23 January 2004. Policy to Monitor the Financial Management Capability of all
Public Ordinary Schools (Draft) 2016. Knowledge of modern systems of
governance and administration. Knowledge of monitoring and reporting
processes. Skills: Financial Administration. Analytical thinking. Written and
verbal communications (reports and submissions). Organisational and
Planning. Numerical skills. Computer literacy. Presentation. Interpretation,
analyse and conceptualise. Ability to gather and process information.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the Approved Budget for Public
Ordinary Schools and Hostels. Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the
Annual Financial Statements of Public Ordinary Schools and Hostels within the
Education District. Manage the evaluation of the Bi-annual Financial
Statements (WCED 043) of the Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools
within the Education District. Manage, coordinate and administer pre-forensic
investigations. People Management functions. Extensive experience of the
Red Flag database with regards to capturing and analyzing of information in
order to effect transfer payments. AGSA Response Team. Manage the
Presidential Youth Employment Initiative (PYEI).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
CLOSING DATE : 10 June 2025
POST 17/387 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF NO: 169
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) with Auditing/Financial Management as subjects or
a Degree in Auditing/Financial Management plus 3 years relevant experience
in auditing or financial management environment. Driver's license.
Communication in two of the official languages of the Western Cape.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). South African schools
Act, No. 84 of 996. The Western Cape Provincial School Education Act, No.12
of 1997. National Treasury Regulations, government Gazette No. 35617 on
Amended National Norms and Standards for Schools Funding (NNSSF), 2012.
Manual: Basic Financial System for Public Ordinary Schools. Treasury
Guidelines: Preparation of Estimates for Medium Term Expenditure
Framework. Budget Prescriptions promulgated in Provincial Gazette 6103 of
23 January 2004. Policy to Monitor the Financial Management Capability of all
Public Ordinary Schools (Draft) 2016. Knowledge of modern systems of
governance and administration. Knowledge of monitoring and reporting
processes. Skills: Financial Administration. Analytical thinking. Written and
verbal communications (reports and submissions). Organisational and
Planning. Numerical skills. Computer literacy. Presentation. Interpretation,
analyse and conceptualise. Ability to gather and process information.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the Approved Budget for Public
Ordinary Schools and Hostels. Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the
Annual Financial Statements of Public Ordinary Schools and Hostels within the
Education District. Manage the evaluation of the Bi-annual Financial
Statements (WCED 043) of the Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools
within the Education District. Manage, coordinate and administer pre-forensic
investigations. People Management functions. Extensive experience of the
Red Flag database with regards to capturing and analyzing of information in
order to effect transfer payments. AGSA Response Team. Manage the
Presidential Youth Employment Initiative (PYEI).
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
264
POST 17/388 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: 183
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year qualification/B degree with 3-5 years' experience.
Knowledge: Knowledge of communication, public relations, public participation
and public education. Modern systems of governance and administration. The
latest advances in public management theory and practices. Policies of the
government of the day. Skills: Problem solving, numeracy and decision
making; Analytical thinking; Ability to work under pressure; Computer literate
(Ms Word, Ms Excel, Ms Outlook, PowerPoint); Good verbal and written
communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape; organizational and planning skills; report writing.
DUTIES : Manage the GG and public transport at the district level. Render an efficient
and effective fleet management service. Ensure that vehicles are issued to
staff, traffic violations cases, misuse of vehicles, licensing and inspection of
vehicles are managed. Ensure that quarterly assessment on utilization of the
districts fleet is done and users logbooks are management according to
prescripts. Ensure the arrangement of public transport (including flights / hiring
of cars / transport to and from airport are done. Manage and maintain district
records. Provide registry counter services. Provide registry counter services.
Handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence. Render an effective filing
and record management service. Management of the operation and operating
of office machines in relation to the registry function. Ensure the processing of
documents for archiving and/disposal in line with official filing system of WCED.
Electronic scanning of files. Provide a facilities logistical service (including
reception, switchboard, management of telecommunications and official
branding in line with Communication prescripts. Management of district
infrastructure including refurbishing, Occupational Health and Safety
Management, security management, as well as food, cleaning and gardening
service needs of districts. Booking of venues. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/389 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
REF NO: 184
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or degree plus 3 years administrative experience. A
valid driver's licence. To facilitate and coordinate developmental support to
Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools (including hostels) with respect to
school management and governance. knowledge: Knowledge of the Education
departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Western Cape Policy for
the Management of Admission. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures.
Knowledge of finance (business planning). Knowledge of project planning.
Knowledge of School administrative processes and procedures. Knowledge of
Information Management Systems (DMIS, CEMIS, SAMI, EIS, IMS). Skills:
Written and verbal communication in 2 official languages of the Western Cape.
Computer literacy. Project Planning and Organising skills. Presentation and
facilitation. Report writing skills (specifications and submissions).
Interpretation, Interpersonal, Problem solving and Financial skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate support to Public Schools (including hostels) with the
implementation of new / existing financial-, records- and school governance
and management policies, guidelines and instruments. Coordinate and monitor
all financial-, records-, governance and management training interventions.
Manage learner admission at district level. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/390 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
REF NO: 212
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
265
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or degree plus 3 years administrative experience. A
valid driver's licence. To facilitate and coordinate developmental support to
Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools (including hostels) with respect to
school management and governance. knowledge: Knowledge of the Education
departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Western Cape Policy for
the Management of Admission. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures.
Knowledge of finance (business planning). Knowledge of project planning.
Knowledge of School administrative processes and procedures. Knowledge of
Information Management Systems (DMIS, CEMIS, SAMI, EIS, IMS). Skills:
Written and verbal communication in 2 official languages of the Western Cape.
Computer literacy. Project Planning and Organising skills. Presentation and
facilitation. Report writing skills (specifications and submissions).
Interpretation, Interpersonal, Problem solving and Financial skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate support to Public Schools (including hostels) with the
implementation of new / existing financial-, records- and school governance
and management policies, guidelines and instruments. Coordinate and monitor
all financial-, records-, governance and management training interventions.
Manage learner admission at district level. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/391 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL BATCH AND LOSS CONTROL REF
NO: 230
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : B. Degree or equivalent qualification in Financial Accounting with 3 years
relevant experience (Financial Accounting and Auditing to be passed at third
year). A valid driver’s license (Code B/EB/C1). Knowledge: Proven Knowledge
of GRAP/IFRS/MCS, Sound knowledge of financial management and
accounting processes; Sound knowledge of modern systems of governance
and administration; knowledge on Risk Management and Auditing; Sound
Knowledge of financial information systems; Sound knowledge of Supply chain
management; Financial Delegations; Project Management and organisational
skills; Report writing; MS Office applications; Ability to interpret regulations;
Problem resolution experience requiring strong analytical skills, sound
judgement.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with all applicable prescripts and regulations. Develop and
implement policies and procedures dictating financial reporting and recording
requirements. Manage investigations (including assessment and
determination), recovery and reporting on losses, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure and irregular expenditure in accordance with applicable
frameworks and regulations. Manage and/or provide inputs to financial
reporting processes (Annual and quarterly). Reporting including Driving and
promoting late payment improvements. Management and regular follow up of
suspense accounts. Manage the storage, maintenance and disposal of
financial records in accordance with applicable regulations. Liaise with the
State attorney on investigations, Auditor General and Internal Audit on the audit
and respond to audit queries for the Department. Maintain stakeholder
relationship with State attorney, Auditor General, Internal Audit, Supervision
and performance management of staff in the loss control unit and the financial
batch control unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Burger Tel No: (021) 467 2188
POST 17/392 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: 235 (X4
POSTS)
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant National Diploma or Degree in Finance, plus a minimum of 3 years
relevant experience in a financial and/or budget environment; A valid Code B
(manual) driver's license. The successful candidate will at times be required to
work irregular hours, including travel. Candidates must be prepared to do a
practical test as part of the shortlisting/evaluation process. Knowledge:
Knowledge of financial policies and regulations. Knowledge of financial
processes. Ability to analyze and interpret financial data. Advanced computer
266
literacy in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
Technical knowledge of financial systems. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. The ability to give clear direction in realizing objectives.
Knowledge of financial data modelling. Strong analytical, problem-solving and
decision-making skills. Ability to work independently and under pressure in a
dynamic and diverse environment. People management skills.
DUTIES : Provide management information with regards to the financial processes within
the Department, for example institutional funding and budget related matters.
Ensure effective implementation and monitoring of financial policies and
guidelines and assist in the formulation thereof. Manage and analysis of project
costings/related activities including providing advice on the outcome of these
costing to management. Analyse expenditure trends/reports and provide report
to management and external stakeholders. Co-ordination and preparation of
submissions/presentations to serve at high level meetings. Manage and submit
cash flow plans as well as the reporting thereof. Manage the re-allocation of
funds and movement of funds allocated within the budget after reprioritization.
Ability to assist and support financial data modelling. Analyse and interpret
financial and non-financial data and prepare a submission on the findings to
management including performance reporting and financial statement inputs.
Manage the institutional funding including communication, affordability of
costing proposals and payments. Research and development of policy
applications in a financial environment. Management of staff in the component
including general administrative tasks and other employee related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PPP Adams Tel No: (021) 467 2225
POST 17/393 : E-LEARNING PROJECTS FACILITATOR REF NO: 170
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Degree plus 3 years’ experience in project
management in an ICT environment preferably within education. A valid
driver's licence. To manage e-Learning projects at district level. Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant eLearning Provincial Policies, legislation and
regulations (White Paper 7). Knowledge of Project Management within an ICT
environment. Knowledge of Project Management within an education
environment. Skills: Advanced computer literacy, negotiation, presentation,
communication and report writing skills. Project and organisational planning.
Ability to think analytically and systematically.
DUTIES : Assist in the process of confirming the list of priority schools for new and
technology refresh. Conduct audits of technology at schools to inform decisions
(collaborated with CeI for technical evaluation). Manage the retrieval and
redistribution of technology. Coordinate and manage the implementation of all
e-Learning projects deliverables such as project plans, site visits, installations.
Ensure that schools with subject-specific needs (e.g. CAT / IT / EGD) are
adequately ICT resourced in collaboration with other stakeholders (Head
Office, District Subject Adviser and CeI) according to approved plans. Check
and report on the schedule of needs and project plans for technology
provisioning in priority schools/ district. Submit project plans for approval and
signature of the Manager Curriculum Support (MCS) and Director Education
District. Coordinate and project manage all technology provisioning at schools
for e-Learning and e-Administration. Develop and implement plans, processes
and systems to effectively implement e-Learning and technology provision
projects and report on all projects. Liaise with head office (eLearning) with
respect to provisioning of technology and relevant research and evaluation
innovation projects. Implementation and support of new technology and refresh
of technology at Public Ordinary and Special Schools. Ensure support and
maintenance as per SLA from CeI, ICT helpdesk, outside service providers: e-
Learning and e-Administration equipment including connectivity. Collaborate
and liaise with the different units at head office and districts i.e. e-Learning HO,
FET / GET Curriculum, IMG, ICT Committee and CeI with respect to relevant
e-Learning projects. Ensure first line administrative technical support to
schools and School Network Administrator (SNA) with respect to error
detection including connectivity, software and hardware. Provide relevant
information to inform the e-Learning database. Develop, manage, and maintain
an updated database / records of the implementation of e-Learning projects
267
including financial aspects in line with project management principles. Update
and maintain a project register. (e.g. WCED Projects, District Initiated and
Donor funded). Report regularly to relevant stakeholders on e-learning
projects, technology provisioning and connectivity.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/394 : E-LEARNING PROJECTS FACILITATOR REF NO: 178
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Degree plus 3 years’ experience in project
management in an ICT environment preferably within education. A valid
driver's licence. To manage e-Learning projects at district level. Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant eLearning Provincial Policies, legislation and
regulations (White Paper 7). Knowledge of Project Management within an ICT
environment. Knowledge of Project Management within an education
environment. Skills: Advanced computer literacy, negotiation, presentation,
communication and report writing skills. Project and organisational planning.
Ability to think analytically and systematically.
DUTIES : Assist in the process of confirming the list of priority schools for new and
technology refresh. Conduct audits of technology at schools to inform decisions
(collaborated with CeI for technical evaluation). Manage the retrieval and
redistribution of technology. Coordinate and manage the implementation of all
e-Learning projects deliverables such as project plans, site visits, installations.
Ensure that schools with subject-specific needs (e.g. CAT / IT / EGD) are
adequately ICT resourced in collaboration with other stakeholders (Head
Office, District Subject Adviser and CeI) according to approved plans. Check
and report on the schedule of needs and project plans for technology
provisioning in priority schools/ district. Submit project plans for approval and
signature of the Manager Curriculum Support (MCS) and Director Education
District. Coordinate and project manage all technology provisioning at schools
for e-Learning and e-Administration. Develop and implement plans, processes
and systems to effectively implement e-Learning and technology provision
projects and report on all projects. Liaise with head office (eLearning) with
respect to provisioning of technology and relevant research and evaluation
innovation projects. Implementation and support of new technology and refresh
of technology at Public Ordinary and Special Schools. Ensure support and
maintenance as per SLA from CeI, ICT helpdesk, outside service providers: e-
Learning and e-Administration equipment including connectivity. Collaborate
and liaise with the different units at head office and districts i.e. e-Learning HO,
FET / GET Curriculum, IMG, ICT Committee and CeI with respect to relevant
e-Learning projects. Ensure first line administrative technical support to
schools and School Network Administrator (SNA) with respect to error
detection including connectivity, software and hardware. Provide relevant
information to inform the e-Learning database. Develop, manage, and maintain
an updated database / records of the implementation of e-Learning projects
including financial aspects in line with project management principles. Update
and maintain a project register. (e.g. WCED Projects, District Initiated and
Donor funded). Report regularly to relevant stakeholders on e-learning
projects, technology provisioning and connectivity
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East EDO)
POST 17/395 : E-LEARNING PROJECTS FACILITATOR REF NO: 189
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Degree plus 3 years’ experience in project
management in an ICT environment preferably within education. A valid
driver's licence. To manage e-Learning projects at district level. Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant eLearning Provincial Policies, legislation and
regulations (White Paper 7). Knowledge of Project Management within an ICT
environment. Knowledge of Project Management within an education
environment. Skills: Advanced computer literacy, negotiation, presentation,
communication and report writing skills. Project and organisational planning.
Ability to think analytically and systematically.
268
DUTIES : Assist in the process of confirming the list of priority schools for new and
technology refresh. Conduct audits of technology at schools to inform decisions
(collaborated with CeI for technical evaluation). Manage the retrieval and
redistribution of technology. Coordinate and manage the implementation of all
e-Learning projects deliverables such as project plans, site visits, installations.
Ensure that schools with subject-specific needs (e.g. CAT / IT / EGD) are
adequately ICT resourced in collaboration with other stakeholders (Head
Office, District Subject Adviser and CeI) according to approved plans. Check
and report on the schedule of needs and project plans for technology
provisioning in priority schools/ district. Submit project plans for approval and
signature of the Manager Curriculum Support (MCS) and Director Education
District. Coordinate and project manage all technology provisioning at schools
for e-Learning and e-Administration. Develop and implement plans, processes
and systems to effectively implement e-Learning and technology provision
projects and report on all projects. Liaise with head office (eLearning) with
respect to provisioning of technology and relevant research and evaluation
innovation projects. Implementation and support of new technology and refresh
of technology at Public Ordinary and Special Schools. Ensure support and
maintenance as per SLA from CeI, ICT helpdesk, outside service providers: e-
Learning and e-Administration equipment including connectivity. Collaborate
and liaise with the different units at head office and districts i.e. e-Learning HO,
FET / GET Curriculum, IMG, ICT Committee and CeI with respect to relevant
e-Learning projects. Ensure first line administrative technical support to
schools and School Network Administrator (SNA) with respect to error
detection including connectivity, software and hardware. Provide relevant
information to inform the e-Learning database. Develop, manage, and maintain
an updated database / records of the implementation of e-Learning projects
including financial aspects in line with project management principles. Update
and maintain a project register. (e.g. WCED Projects, District Initiated and
Donor funded). Report regularly to relevant stakeholders on e-learning
projects, technology provisioning and connectivity.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/396 : E-LEARNING PROJECTS FACILITATOR REF NO: 221
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Degree plus 3 years’ experience in project
management in an ICT environment preferably within education. A valid
driver's licence. To manage e-Learning projects at district level. Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant eLearning Provincial Policies, legislation and
regulations (White Paper 7). Knowledge of Project Management within an ICT
environment. Knowledge of Project Management within an education
environment. Skills: Advanced computer literacy, negotiation, presentation,
communication and report writing skills. Project and organisational planning.
Ability to think analytically and systematically.
DUTIES : Assist in the process of confirming the list of priority schools for new and
technology refresh. Conduct audits of technology at schools to inform decisions
(collaborated with CeI for technical evaluation). Manage the retrieval and
redistribution of technology. Coordinate and manage the implementation of all
e-Learning projects deliverables such as project plans, site visits, installations.
Ensure that schools with subject-specific needs (e.g. CAT / IT / EGD) are
adequately ICT resourced in collaboration with other stakeholders (Head
Office, District Subject Adviser and CeI) according to approved plans. Check
and report on the schedule of needs and project plans for technology
provisioning in priority schools/ district. Submit project plans for approval and
signature of the Manager Curriculum Support (MCS) and Director Education
District. Coordinate and project manage all technology provisioning at schools
for e-Learning and e-Administration. Develop and implement plans, processes
and systems to effectively implement e-Learning and technology provision
projects and report on all projects. Liaise with head office (eLearning) with
respect to provisioning of technology and relevant research and evaluation
innovation projects. Implementation and support of new technology and refresh
of technology at Public Ordinary and Special Schools. Ensure support and
maintenance as per SLA from CeI, ICT helpdesk, outside service providers: e-
Learning and e-Administration equipment including connectivity. Collaborate
269
and liaise with the different units at head office and districts i.e. e-Learning HO,
FET / GET Curriculum, IMG, ICT Committee and CeI with respect to relevant
e-Learning projects. Ensure first line administrative technical support to
schools and School Network Administrator (SNA) with respect to error
detection including connectivity, software and hardware. Provide relevant
information to inform the e-Learning database. Develop, manage, and maintain
an updated database / records of the implementation of e-Learning projects
including financial aspects in line with project management principles. Update
and maintain a project register. (e.g. WCED Projects, District Initiated and
Donor funded). Report regularly to relevant stakeholders on e-learning
projects, technology provisioning and connectivity.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/397 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER REF NO: 125 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R453 201 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A formal tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker, and proof of
payment of registration. Valid Code B Driver’s License. 8 years’ experience in
Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Recommendations: Experience in the field of child and youth care. Knowledge:
Project Management skills; Planning and organizing; Networking skills;
Communication (written and verbal); Professional counselling skills; Policy
Analysis and development; Financial management; Presentation skills;
Monitoring and evaluation skills Ability to compile complex reports.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain social work policies: Monitor, interpret and
review legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether the
legislation, policies and procedures are still relevant and comply with current
requirements. Develop proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts, policies
and procedures and develop new policies/procedures where required. This
includes costing the policies. Develop programmes to implement the relevant
policies. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work field. This
would, inter alia, entail the following: Study professional journals and
publications to ensure that cognisance is taken of new developments. Monitor
and study the social services legal and policy framework continuously.
Liaise/attend meetings with other departments, non-government institutions
and relevant stakeholders to take cognisance of the latest developments in the
relevant fields. Engage in continuous professional development activities as
prescribed. Research and development. Perform the administrative functions
required in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/398 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS OFFICER: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING:
TRAINING AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 97
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Human resources; Public Administration or
Labour Law with minimum 3 years’ experience in the Public Sector and a valid
driver’s licence. Recommendation: The successful candidate should have a
thorough knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Legislative
framework with specific emphasis on Education Labour Laws. Excellent
training/facilitation skills and knowledge of the legal prescripts governing
misconduct, grievances and disputes within the public service will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: Good understanding of modern labour relations trends
/developments and all processes involved, training methods and techniques.
All labour-relations legislation related to the education sector. Grievances,
misconduct and dispute resolution processes Advance computer literacy.
Skills: Excellent written and oral communication skills. Good training/facilitation
skills and a sound understanding of modern training interventions. Sound
organising and planning skills. conflict resolution. Decision-making. Innovative.
270
Excellent training skills. Excellent facilitation and communication skills. Strong
coordination skills.
DUTIES : Assist in facilitating, plan and determine training needs of officials, educators
and school governing bodies to ensure they are equipped with relevant labour
relations knowledge and interventions. Assist in developing training materials
and ensure compliance with training standards. Co-ordinate Labour Relations
Training/Interventions for Public Service Employees and Educators. Serve on
various training committees. Compile and analyse statistical data in relation to
misconduct, grievances and disputes. Advise management on labour relation
issues. Where necessary, chair and facilitate labour related meetings. To
optimally fulfil a role as a member of the directorate’s task teams in order to
achieve our strategic goals. Assist with the compilation and analysis of
statistical data.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Syster Tel No: (021) 467 2399
POST 17/399 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS OFFICER: ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO: 98
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : 3- year post school qualification, plus 3 years relevant experience. Knowledge:
Labour relations Act (LRA) 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of
1998. Public Service Act 1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. All applicable resolutions
and collective agreements pertaining to educators and public servants. Good
understanding of modern labour relations management/ development and its
processes, methods and techniques. Knowledge of the requirements of all
labour-related legislation. Knowledge of grievances, disciplinary and
misconduct procedures. Knowledge of negotiations. Knowledge of other
related legislation Skills: Numeracy | Literacy | Computer Literacy | Language
skills | Project Management Other: Interpersonal skills |Communication skills
(written and verbal) | Analytical skills |Problem solving |Decision Making
|Facilitation and Presentation skills |Conflict resolution |Organising.
DUTIES : Render effective misconduct, grievances, disputes and case matters.
Misconduct: Handle misconduct cases through investigation, initiation, and
liaising with organised labour. Deal with all types of enquiries relating to
misconduct. Perform general administrative duties. Grievances: Facilitate the
grievance procedure in terms of the rules for the handling of complaints and
grievances for the public service and educators. Disputes: Analyse the dispute
referral in order to prepare for the conciliation and/or arbitration. ER case
matters: Prepare and support role players with the relevant documents for
labour court case i.e. review applications or similar. Execute Collective
Bargaining and Training services. Assist in collective bargaining consultations
with education unions. Assist in collective bargaining consultations with public
service unions. Assist with secondments and time off for union secondments.
Execute recruitment and selection notices to unions. Send notices to unions of
adverts. Assist in the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
consultation. Execute training and support. Perform advisory and policy
research services. Keeping abreast with updated legislation and the latest
relevant case law in the Labour relations field; Gather and compile information
on topical matters affecting WCED. Perform all activities related to data-
capturing, information processing, analysis, sharing and reporting relating to
the functions of the component. Gather information and provide trend analysis
on all employee related matters. Compile a register and maintain record of
misconduct cases such as Remuneration outside of the public service
(RWOPS), appeals, legal opinions, court cases, and the provision of labour
relations advisory services to the WCED. Handle and compile appeal
documents for the Provincial Minister (Educators), and Appeal Authority (Public
servants): Keep a monthly record of appeal statistics. Execute administrative
support to the specific functions. Apply efficient management and protection of
sensitive and confidential information coming in and going out the sub
directorate in compliance with the applicable prescripts. Represent the
employer at conciliation/arbitration meetings and to act as Presiding Officer in
disciplinary hearings. Assist with advice to management on all aspects of
labour relations. Act as departmental representative in formal disciplinary
hearings (educators and public servants). Promote sound labour relations in
271
the public education sector. Prepare all and relevant documentations for
appointments and meeting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Fry Tel No: (021) 4672866
POST 17/400 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS OFFICER: MISCONDUCT, DISPUTES AND
GRIEVANCES REF NO: 101 (X7 POSTS)
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized degree or an equivalent qualification (REQV 13).
Relevant experience in investigations and/or conducting of disciplinary
hearings; and/or dealing with dispute resolution and/or grievance processes.
Valid driver’s license. Recommendation: Willingness to travel frequently and
work irregular hours. The ability to work under pressure, to reason clearly and
logically. Investigative skills. Good written and verbal skills. Broad knowledge
of personnel and labour relations matters. Knowledge of statutes applicable to
both Public Service and Educators. Ability to speak, read and write in at least
two official languages. Knowledge: Broad knowledge of personnel and labour
relations matters. Knowledge of statutes applicable to both Public Service and
Educators. Ability to speak, read and write in at least two official languages.
Skills: The ability to work under pressure, to reason clearly and logically.
Investigative skills. Good written and verbal skills. Sound report writing skills
and writing of submissions with insight.
DUTIES : Represent the WCED at grievance and dispute meetings (CS Educators and
Public Service Personnel, i.e. individual and collective). investigate and
represent WCED at misconduct hearings (CS Educators and Public Service).
Advise management on issues pertaining to employment law and labour
relations. Provide support functions to line functionaries in respect of employee
relations, including misconduct and disputes. Pro-active conflict intervention;
promotion of labour peace; liaison with trade unions; conflict resolution over
wide spectrum. Providing advice to clients at the institutions of the WCED (CS
Educators and Public Service Personnel) on labour related matters. Attend any
labour related meetings; if required. Sound report writing skills and writing of
submissions with insight.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L-A Bathgate Tel No: (021) 467 2848
POST 17/401 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: 145
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year relevant post matric qualification (preference will be given to Labour
relations and labour law as subjects). Valid Driver’s Licence B. 2 Years
Relevant administrative experience within people management / labour
relations environment. Knowledge: People Management (HR) and Employee
Relations; Employee Relations and Public Service Legislation and procedures;
Relevant experience in investigative processes in relation to misconduct cases;
disputes and grievances; Ability to represent the employer in misconduct
cases; disputes and grievances as required. Skills: Investigative; Written and
verbal communication in 2 Official languages of the Western Cape; Report
writing; Capturing of data; Analytical thinking; Computer literacy; Interpersonal;
Interpretation; Planning and organisational.
DUTIES : Responsible to manage progressive discipline and misconduct process within
the district; Advise the responsible manager on processes relating to
progressive discipline. Facilitate or advise on misconduct procedures. Advise
and assist Head Office on investigations into allegations of misconduct. Serve
as departmental representative at employee disciplinary hearings. Provide
support to the Directorate Employee Relations on all misconduct cases within
the Education District. Preside over misconduct cases when appointed to do
so by Directorate Employee Relations. Update and maintain relevant
information management systems with regards to progressive discipline and
misconduct. Provide monthly statistics and report on misconduct cases to
DCES People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Responsible
to manage disputes processes within the district; Facilitate or advise on dispute
procedures. Represent the WCED in formal dispute resolution processes;
when requested. Advise on unfair labour practices. Provide advice on issues
272
relating to unfair dismissals, victimisation and discrimination. Update and
maintain relevant information management systems. Report on disputes to
DCES People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Responsible
to manage on grievance procedures within the district; Advise managers on
the grievance procedure in terms of the Rules for the Handling of Complaints
and Grievances. Ensure that managers comply with the timeframes in terms of
Rules for the Handling of Complaints and Grievances. Update and maintain
relevant information management systems. Provide monthly statistics and
report on grievances to DCES People Management and Directorate Employee
Relations. Responsible to provide training to employees within the District;
Training of line supervisors and managers within the District Office. Training of
School Governing Bodies and Principals. Liaise with and assist Directorate
Employee Relations with training to ensure labour peace. Report on Industrial
action to DCES People Management. Update and maintain relevant
information management systems. Report on all training conducted to DCES
People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Collective
Bargaining; Proper and accurate research on the topic / issue for submission.
Provide commentary, evaluate and implement decisions emanating out of the
IMLCs Provide advice on legal implications of employee related matters. Co-
ordinate caucus meetings of the employer for IMLC meetings and
engagements with unions. Organise and conduct information sessions with
managers on labour relations legislation and collective agreements. Handling
of enquiries, statistics and general administration. Update and maintain
relevant information management systems. Report on all of the above to the
DCES People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/402 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: 226
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year relevant post matric qualification (preference will be given to Labour
relations and labour law as subjects). Valid Driver’s Licence B. 2 Years
Relevant administrative experience within people management / labour
relations environment. Knowledge: People Management (HR) and Employee
Relations; Employee Relations and Public Service Legislation and procedures;
Relevant experience in investigative processes in relation to misconduct cases;
disputes and grievances; Ability to represent the employer in misconduct
cases; disputes and grievances as required. Skills: Investigative; Written and
verbal communication in 2 Official languages of the Western Cape; Report
writing; Capturing of data; Analytical thinking; Computer literacy; Interpersonal;
Interpretation; Planning and organisational.
DUTIES : Responsible to manage progressive discipline and misconduct process within
the district; Advise the responsible manager on processes relating to
progressive discipline. Facilitate or advise on misconduct procedures. Advise
and assist Head Office on investigations into allegations of misconduct. Serve
as departmental representative at employee disciplinary hearings. Provide
support to the Directorate Employee Relations on all misconduct cases within
the Education District. Preside over misconduct cases when appointed to do
so by Directorate Employee Relations. Update and maintain relevant
information management systems with regards to progressive discipline and
misconduct. Provide monthly statistics and report on misconduct cases to
DCES People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Responsible
to manage disputes processes within the district; Facilitate or advise on dispute
procedures. Represent the WCED in formal dispute resolution processes;
when requested. Advise on unfair labour practices. Provide advice on issues
relating to unfair dismissals, victimisation and discrimination. Update and
maintain relevant information management systems. Report on disputes to
DCES People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Responsible
to manage on grievance procedures within the district; Advise managers on
the grievance procedure in terms of the Rules for the Handling of Complaints
and Grievances. Ensure that managers comply with the timeframes in terms of
Rules for the Handling of Complaints and Grievances. Update and maintain
relevant information management systems. Provide monthly statistics and
report on grievances to DCES People Management and Directorate Employee
Relations. Responsible to provide training to employees within the district;
273
Training of line supervisors and managers within the District Office. Training of
School Governing Bodies and Principals. Liaise with and assist Directorate
Employee Relations with training to ensure labour peace. Report on Industrial
action to DCES People Management. Update and maintain relevant
information management systems. Report on all training conducted to DCES
People Management and Directorate Employee Relations. Collective
Bargaining; Proper and accurate research on the topic / issue for submission.
Provide commentary, evaluate and implement decisions emanating out of the
IMLCs Provide advice on legal implications of employee related matters. Co-
ordinate caucus meetings of the employer for IMLC meetings and
engagements with unions. Organise and conduct information sessions with
managers on labour relations legislation and collective agreements. Handling
of enquiries, statistics and general administration. Update and maintain
relevant information management systems. Report on all of the above to the
DCES People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/403 : ASSISTANT INFORMATION ANALYST REF NO: 106 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Knowledge and Information Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Degree with 1-year relevant experience.
Recommendation: A valid driver's license. Knowledge: Competencies:
Experience: Excellent computer skills with experience in database and on-line
applications; Experience in systems development and implementation; Project
Management; Data query, analysis and reporting. Knowledge: knowledge of
online databases and database handling via queries. Knowledge of blended
survey administration processes. Advanced spread sheet handling
capabilities. Business management reporting. Skills: Excellent oral and written
communication skills; strong logic, analytical and conceptual skills;
Mathematical and diagnostic skills; Good presentation skills; Advanced
computer skills; Problem solving, research and facilitation skills;
Communication skills in two of the official languages of the Western Cape
Province.
DUTIES : Enable access and utilization of Education Information management
information (EMIS) and related information technology (IT) solutions within the
Western Cape Education Department (WCED) in collaboration with DotP: CeI.
Maintain EMIS and related systems within the WCED and provide information
analytics. Facilitate knowledge and information systems and user training and
support in collaboration with education districts. Render support in terms of the
publication and dissemination of institutional knowledge and information
generated within education information systems. Process online and written
requests. Validate survey data. Maintain the network links with system
administration officials. Design and amend surveys in accordance with
Education Information Standards to finalise datasets. Design and apply
verification checks. Office administration and management of resources.
Provide online support and training to schools and officials in the effective use
of school administration systems to ensure accuracy and quality data in the
system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Hansraj Tel No: (021) 467 2086
POST 17/404 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PEOPLE POLICY AND ANALYTICS
REF NO: 117
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: 3-Year National Diploma in (NQF 6) or degree in Human
Resource Management/ Information Science/Public
Management/Administration. Work experience: 3-Years relevant experience.
Knowledge: Policy development and implementation; Public Service Act,
Regulations and Resolutions, Employment Equity Act, project administration
and management, labour relations framework, knowledge of the Employment
of Educators Act and post structures in the education sector will be an
advantage. Skills: Analytical thinking; problem-solving skills; decision making;
facilitation and presentation skills; good written and communication skills;
274
ability to interpret prescripts; knowledge of and experience in database
management; ability to work under pressure; intermediate/advanced usage of
the Microsoft Office suite (Excel, Word and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Render support and advice on people management data, information, trend
analysis and research reports. Administer standardized people management
business intelligence systems. Interpret, develop, monitor and maintain HR
policy guidelines and circulars. Render an employment equity and
transformation service, including secretariat services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Florence Tel No: (021) 467 2169.
POST 17/405 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
AND ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO: 120
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : At least a recognized 3-year qualification which can be in Human Resource
Management, Public Management, Industrial Psychology or B. Admin with at
least 3-years’ experience in human resources or relevant experience;
Language proficiency in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Knowledge: Knowledge of people management related
processes, systems and prescripts. Skills: Communication skills, language
skills, Computer skills, Planning and Organizing skills, Presentation skills,
Report writing skills (specifications and submissions), Interpersonal skills.
Ability to analyze, conceptualize and implement policy, Conflict resolution
skills. Monitor, evaluation and reporting skills Problem solving skills Research
skills.
DUTIES : Assist and support the development of performance agreements, mid-year
assessments, and annual assessment, including moderation and probation
processes for Public Service Staff, inclusive of Senior Management Service
(SMS) members Provide operational and administrative support to educator
(school and office-based) performance management processes Provide and
assist with guidance and support on incapacity due to poor performance, ill-
health, disability or misconduct for Public Service Staff Render a general
administrative support function for the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Abrahams Tel No: (021) 467 2574
POST 17/406 : LEARNER TRANSPORT OFFICER REF NO: 153
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: A relevant 3-year qualification (Degree/National Diploma or
equivalent); A valid Code B - Manual driving license; Two years relevant
experience in an administrative environment Recommendations: Applicable
experience in a LTS Administration environment. Knowledge: Relevant
Legislation, Policies and guidelines; The National Road Traffic Act/
Regulations; Provincial School Education Act; National/ Provincial LTS Policy;
Contract Management; Information management (including GIS & CEMIS);
Financial administration; The LTS Standard Operating Procedures Manual
Skills: The following experience, skills and knowledge are required to
successfully function in this position: Computer literacy in MS Office; Good
verbal and written communication skills; Organisational, planning and
numeracy skills; Report Writing, Supervisory Skills.
DUTIES : LTS Application Processing: Receive and process LTS applications. Maintain
a register of LTS applications received. Verify learner details on the Central
Education Management Information System (CEMIS). Utilise WCED Learner
Transport System Application to compile LTS route map with verified distances
and Geographic Positioning System (GPS) coordinates. Conduct route
verifications where required. Communicate with schools/ Circuit Managers
regarding shortcomings identified. Present the completed applications to
district manager/s for final recommendation. Ensure the creation and
maintenance of a separate file for each LTS route. LTS Vehicle Testing/
Roadworthy Confirmations: Ensure the timeous arrangement of roadworthy
testing/ obtaining Roadworthy Certificates for approved LTS vehicles. Ensure
the maintenance of a database of approved LTS vehicles. Ensure the update
of database with approved LTS vehicle replacements. Requesting corrective
275
action where required and maintaining related records. Monthly reporting. LTS
Claim Processing: Oversee receipt of monthly LTS claims. Verify correctness
and submit for payment. Ensure claims are received timeously and follow up
where claims are not received. Maintain a register of claims. Monthly
Reporting. LTS Route/ Vehicle Inspections: Ensure regular scheduled
inspections of LTS routes. Conduct unannounced LTS inspections. Identify
cases of non-compliance. Communication, in writing, with principals/ learner
transport contractors regarding non-compliance. Attend to learner transport
complaints received. Maintain a LTS complaints register. Take corrective
actions. Report Monthly on LTS route inspections conducted and actions
taken. Supervision: Perform a supervisory function. Motivate, train and guide
staff. Manage staff performance and evaluation. Promote sound employee
relations. Manage/ promote the maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO).
POST 17/407 : SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE OFFICER REF NO: 154
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification or degree plus 3 years relevant administrative
experience (preferably in the field of assessment and development of policies).
A valid code B driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Education
Departmental policies and procedures; Knowledge of Western Cape Policy for
the Management of Admission; Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures;
Knowledge of finance (business planning); Knowledge of project planning;
Knowledge of School Administrative Processes and procedures; Knowledge of
Information Management Systems (DMIS, CEMIS, SAMI, EIS, IMS). Skills:
Communication skills in 2 official languages of the Western Cape; Computer
literacy; Project planning; Organising; Presentation and facilitation; Report
writing skills (specifications and submissions); Interpretation; Interpersonal;
Problem solving; Financial.
DUTIES : Check that management and governance policies are available / accessible.
Assess identified key policies of management and governance in line with
prescripts. Assist the school / hostel with the development of the relevant
policies in line with prescripts. Investigate, resolve and report on complaints
regarding school / hostel management and governance policies. Support and
follow up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically
on all aspects of school / hostel policies to the Assistant Director School
Management and Governance. Training on and the development of school /
hostel management and governance policies. Monitor the implementation of
the training interventions. Coordinate the process of learner admission at
district level.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO).
POST 17/408 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER: CIRCUIT 6 REF NO: 158
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric finance qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant
administrative experience (preferably in finance and records management
experience). Valid code B drivers licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
Departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records
Service Act; Knowledge of Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge
of budgeting processes and techniques; Knowledge of Financial Systems (e.g.
Pastel, etc.); Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures;
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (EMIS, CEMIS, Leave
Management Systems); Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills in (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Computer
Literacy (including skills in Pastel, etc.); Planning and Organising;
Presentation; Report writing skills (reports and submissions); Analytical and
interpretation; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Financial (including
bookkeeping).
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Assist with the development of file plans, registers in line with prescripts.
Support and follow-up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and
276
electronically on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director:
School Management and Governance. Monitor, verify, develop and report on
sound Financial Administration Systems. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist / training with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow-up
on all required corrective actions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO).
POST 17/409 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER REF NO: 164 (X3 POSTS)
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric finance qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant
administrative experience (preferably in finance and records management
experience). Valid code B drivers licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
Departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records
Service Act; Knowledge of Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge
of budgeting processes and techniques; Knowledge of Financial Systems (e.g.
Pastel, etc.); Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures;
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (EMIS, CEMIS, Leave
Management Systems); Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills in (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Computer
Literacy (including skills in Pastel, etc.); Planning and Organising;
Presentation; Report writing skills (reports and submissions); Analytical and
interpretation; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Financial (including
bookkeeping).
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Assist with the development of file plans, registers in line with prescripts.
Support and follow-up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and
electronically on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director:
School Management and Governance. Monitor, verify, develop and report on
sound Financial Administration Systems. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist / training with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow-up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director: School
Management and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/410 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER REF NO: 176
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric finance qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant
administrative experience (preferably in finance and records management
experience). Valid code B drivers licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
Departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records
Service Act; Knowledge of Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge
of budgeting processes and techniques; Knowledge of Financial Systems (e.g.
Pastel, etc.); Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures;
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (EMIS, CEMIS, Leave
Management Systems); Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills in (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Computer
Literacy (including skills in Pastel, etc.); Planning and Organising;
Presentation; Report writing skills (reports and submissions); Analytical and
interpretation; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Financial (including
bookkeeping).
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Assist with the development of file plans, registers in line with prescripts.
277
Support and follow-up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and
electronically on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director:
School Management and Governance. Monitor, verify, develop and report on
sound Financial Administration Systems. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist / training with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow-up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director: School
Management and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East EDO)
POST 17/411 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER REF NO: 209
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric finance qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant
administrative experience (preferably in finance and records management
experience). Valid code B drivers licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
Departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records
Service Act; Knowledge of Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge
of budgeting processes and techniques; Knowledge of Financial Systems (e.g.
Pastel, etc.); Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures;
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (EMIS, CEMIS, Leave
Management Systems); Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills in (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Computer
Literacy (including skills in Pastel, etc.); Planning and Organising;
Presentation; Report writing skills (reports and submissions); Analytical and
interpretation; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Financial (including
bookkeeping).
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Assist with the development of file plans, registers in line with prescripts.
Support and follow-up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and
electronically on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director:
School Management and Governance. Monitor, verify, develop and report on
sound Financial Administration Systems. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist / training with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow-up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director: School
Management and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/412 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER REF NO: 223
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric finance qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant
administrative experience (preferably in finance and records management
experience). Valid code B drivers licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
Departmental policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records
Service Act; Knowledge of Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge
of budgeting processes and techniques; Knowledge of Financial Systems (e.g.
Pastel, etc.); Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures;
Knowledge of Information Management Systems (EMIS, CEMIS, Leave
Management Systems); Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills in (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Computer
Literacy (including skills in Pastel, etc.); Planning and Organising;
Presentation; Report writing skills (reports and submissions); Analytical and
278
interpretation; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Financial (including
bookkeeping).
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Assist with the development of file plans, registers in line with prescripts.
Support and follow-up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and
electronically on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director:
School Management and Governance. Monitor, verify, develop and report on
sound Financial Administration Systems. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist / training with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow-up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director: School
Management and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter: Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO).
POST 17/413 : SCHOOL SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: 180
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma (NQFL 6) or degree with 3 years relevant
experience. A valid Code B or higher drivers' Licence. Knowledge: Further
Duties are and developmental initiatives including Youth Clubs, AntiTruancy
and Back to School Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate training in conflict
management, crime prevention and safety planning. Coordinate and
implement safety and security training in line with the National Schools Safety
Framework. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Development Programmes which
includes After School Programmes (ASP) and Holiday Programmes. Monitor
and report on the implementation of various attitudinal / behavioural programs
and relevant budgets to the DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Knowledge of: Occupation Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. Finance (SCM and
budgetary processes). Knowledge and application of relevant Education
Policies, Prescripts and Legislation. National School Safety Framework Project
Planning. Skills: Report writing skills. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring
and evaluation skills. Problem solving skills Human relations skills. Analytical
skills. Negotiation skills. Conflict Management and Mediation Skills.
Communication skills (At least two of the official languages of WCG).
Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Policies, National /
Provincial School Safety Framework, work procedures and relevant policies in
schools. Ensure the establishment of a properly constituted and functional
safety committee. Assist with the development of a safety policy to protect the
property and keep employees and learners safe. Assist with the creation of a
comprehensive safety Plan which will include a Contingency Plan. The role of
each employee in maintaining workplace safety (include RCL, SGB and SMT).
Type of training each employee needs. Keep up to date with all aspects of
relevant health and safety workplace legislation and communicate relevant
changes. Conduct safety and security awareness campaigns and
programmes. Provide a high-level Safety Health Environmental (SHE)
consultancy and advisory service based on legal and other regulatory
frameworks. Regular inspections at Public Ordinary Schools and Special
Schools to check policies and procedures are being properly implemented.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the policies and procedures; and
drills conducted at Public Schools to DCES School Management and
Governance Support. Conduct Security audits / risk assessments / safety
inspections at Schools. Establish a full programme of documented health and
safety inspections, audits and assessments in relation to learner and employee
safety. Evaluate workplace safety / risk assessment / safety inspections and
consider how risks could be reduced. Establish safe working practices that
comply with legislation. Conduct safety inspections at schools regarding
evacuation drills and emergency alarms; safety risk assessments and standard
279
operating procedures; employees being aware of their responsibilities; ensure
safety equipment is installed safely and maintained, that records are kept of all
safety related matters. Provide a list of safety findings and recommendations
to the Principal. Procure safety infrastructure and services to limit risks. (align
with procurement policies). Assist the Safety Committee with the development
of an action plan. Monitor and report on the implementation of action plans.
Keep records of audit / assessments/ safety inspection findings and provide
relevant reports to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Support the effective management of District Occupational Health Safety
(OHS) Committee. Serve on the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee. Support the Corporate Services Component with the development
and implementation of a Health and Safety Plan for the Education District.
Mobilize and advocate safety and security at district level. Guide the
development and implementation of disaster management preparedness plan.
Report on the support given to the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee to the DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate Health and Safety Training for Public Ordinary and
Special Schools. Establish a structured programme of Health and Safety
Training within the Education District. Liaise with external health and safety
consultants in the provision of training programmes and health and safety
services. Coordinate the delivery of training (evacuation plans, fire prevention,
fire protection and hazardous materials communication). Ensure full an
accurate health and safety training records are maintained. Review training
feedback from employees. Maintain a database of employees who have
completed the required training. Report on the implementation of occupational
health and safety training to DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Coordinate and facilitate various attitudinal / behavioural programs to
support, modify or influence learner and educator behaviour to create safe
learning environments and promote quality teaching and learning. Organizing,
manage and facilitate all School Based Crime Control, Crime Prevention.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East EDO).
POST 17/414 : SCHOOL SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: 192
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma (NQFL 6) or degree with 3 years relevant
experience. A valid Code B or higher drivers' Licence. Knowledge: Further
Duties are and developmental initiatives including Youth Clubs, AntiTruancy
and Back to School Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate training in conflict
management, crime prevention and safety planning. Coordinate and
implement safety and security training in line with the National Schools Safety
Framework. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Development Programmes which
includes After School Programmes (ASP) and Holiday Programmes. Monitor
and report on the implementation of various attitudinal / behavioral programs
and relevant budgets to the DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Knowledge of: Occupation Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. Finance (SCM and
budgetary processes). Knowledge and application of relevant Education
Policies, Prescripts and Legislation. National School Safety Framework Project
Planning. Skills: Report writing skills. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring
and evaluation skills. Problem solving skills Human relations skills. Analytical
skills. Negotiation skills. Conflict Management and Mediation Skills.
Communication skills (At least two of the official languages of WCG).
Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Policies, National /
Provincial School Safety Framework, work procedures and relevant policies in
schools. Ensure the establishment of a properly constituted and functional
safety committee. Assist with the development of a safety policy to protect the
property and keep employees and learners safe. Assist with the creation of a
comprehensive safety Plan which will include a Contingency Plan. The role of
each employee in maintaining workplace safety (include RCL, SGB and SMT).
Type of training each employee needs. Keep up to date with all aspects of
relevant health and safety workplace legislation and communicate relevant
280
changes. Conduct safety and security awareness campaigns and
programmes. Provide a high-level Safety Health Environmental (SHE)
consultancy and advisory service based on legal and other regulatory
frameworks. Regular inspections at Public Ordinary Schools and Special
Schools to check policies and procedures are being properly implemented.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the policies and procedures; and
drills conducted at Public Schools to DCES School Management and
Governance Support. Conduct Security audits / risk assessments / safety
inspections at Schools. Establish a full programme of documented health and
safety inspections, audits and assessments in relation to learner and employee
safety. Evaluate workplace safety / risk assessment / safety inspections and
consider how risks could be reduced. Establish safe working practices that
comply with legislation. Conduct safety inspections at schools regarding
evacuation drills and emergency alarms; safety risk assessments and standard
operating procedures; employees being aware of their responsibilities; ensure
safety equipment is installed safely and maintained, that records are kept of all
safety related matters. Provide a list of safety findings and recommendations
to the Principal. Procure safety infrastructure and services to limit risks. (align
with procurement policies). Assist the Safety Committee with the development
of an action plan. Monitor and report on the implementation of action plans.
Keep records of audit / assessments/ safety inspection findings and provide
relevant reports to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Support the effective management of District Occupational Health Safety
(OHS) Committee. Serve on the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee. Support the Corporate Services Component with the development
and implementation of a Health and Safety Plan for the Education District.
Mobilize and advocate safety and security at district level. Guide the
development and implementation of disaster management preparedness plan.
Report on the support given to the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee to the DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate Health and Safety Training for Public Ordinary and
Special Schools. Establish a structured programme of Health and Safety
Training within the Education District. Liaise with external health and safety
consultants in the provision of training programmes and health and safety
services. Coordinate the delivery of training (evacuation plans, fire prevention,
fire protection and hazardous materials communication). Ensure full an
accurate health and safety training records are maintained. Review training
feedback from employees. Maintain a database of employees who have
completed the required training. Report on the implementation of occupational
health and safety training to DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Coordinate and facilitate various attitudinal / behavioural programs to
support, modify or influence learner and educator behaviour to create safe
learning environments and promote quality teaching and learning. Organizing,
manage and facilitate all School Based Crime Control, Crime Prevention.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/415 : SCHOOL SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: 202
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma (NQFL 6) or degree with 3 years relevant
experience. A valid Code B or higher drivers' Licence. Knowledge: Further
Duties are and developmental initiatives including Youth Clubs, AntiTruancy
and Back to School Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate training in conflict
management, crime prevention and safety planning. Coordinate and
implement safety and security training in line with the National Schools Safety
Framework. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Development Programmes which
includes After School Programmes (ASP) and Holiday Programmes. Monitor
and report on the implementation of various attitudinal / behavioural programs
and relevant budgets to the DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Knowledge of: Occupation Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. Finance (SCM and
budgetary processes). Knowledge and application of relevant Education
Policies, Prescripts and Legislation. National School Safety Framework Project
281
Planning. Skills: Report writing skills. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring
and evaluation skills. Problem solving skills Human relations skills. Analytical
skills. Negotiation skills. Conflict Management and Mediation Skills.
Communication skills (At least two of the official languages of WCG).
Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Policies, National /
Provincial School Safety Framework, work procedures and relevant policies in
schools. Ensure the establishment of a properly constituted and functional
safety committee. Assist with the development of a safety policy to protect the
property and keep employees and learners safe. Assist with the creation of a
comprehensive safety Plan which will include a Contingency Plan. The role of
each employee in maintaining workplace safety (include RCL, SGB and SMT).
Type of training each employee needs. Keep up to date with all aspects of
relevant health and safety workplace legislation and communicate relevant
changes. Conduct safety and security awareness campaigns and
programmes. Provide a high-level Safety Health Environmental (SHE)
consultancy and advisory service based on legal and other regulatory
frameworks. Regular inspections at Public Ordinary Schools and Special
Schools to check policies and procedures are being properly implemented.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the policies and procedures; and
drills conducted at Public Schools to DCES School Management and
Governance Support. Conduct Security audits / risk assessments / safety
inspections at Schools. Establish a full programme of documented health and
safety inspections, audits and assessments in relation to learner and employee
safety. Evaluate workplace safety / risk assessment / safety inspections and
consider how risks could be reduced. Establish safe working practices that
comply with legislation. Conduct safety inspections at schools regarding
evacuation drills and emergency alarms; safety risk assessments and standard
operating procedures; employees being aware of their responsibilities; ensure
safety equipment is installed safely and maintained, that records are kept of all
safety related matters. Provide a list of safety findings and recommendations
to the Principal. Procure safety infrastructure and services to limit risks. (align
with procurement policies). Assist the Safety Committee with the development
of an action plan. Monitor and report on the implementation of action plans.
Keep records of audit / assessments/ safety inspection findings and provide
relevant reports to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Support the effective management of District Occupational Health Safety
(OHS) Committee. Serve on the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee. Support the Corporate Services Component with the development
and implementation of a Health and Safety Plan for the Education District.
Mobilize and advocate safety and security at district level. Guide the
development and implementation of disaster management preparedness plan.
Report on the support given to the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee to the DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate Health and Safety Training for Public Ordinary and
Special Schools. Establish a structured programme of Health and Safety
Training within the Education District. Liaise with external health and safety
consultants in the provision of training programmes and health and safety
services. Coordinate the delivery of training (evacuation plans, fire prevention,
fire protection and hazardous materials communication). Ensure full an
accurate health and safety training records are maintained. Review training
feedback from employees. Maintain a database of employees who have
completed the required training. Report on the implementation of occupational
health and safety training to DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Coordinate and facilitate various attitudinal / behavioural programs to
support, modify or influence learner and educator behaviour to create safe
learning environments and promote quality teaching and learning. Organizing,
manage and facilitate all School Based Crime Control, Crime Prevention
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO).
POST 17/416 : SCHOOL SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: 218
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma (NQFL 6) or degree with 3 years relevant
experience. A valid Code B or higher drivers' Licence. Knowledge: Further
282
Duties are and developmental initiatives including Youth Clubs, AntiTruancy
and Back to School Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate training in conflict
management, crime prevention and safety planning. Coordinate and
implement safety and security training in line with the National Schools Safety
Framework. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Development Programmes which
includes After School Programmes (ASP) and Holiday Programmes. Monitor
and report on the implementation of various attitudinal / behavioral programs
and relevant budgets to the DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Knowledge of: Occupation Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. Finance (SCM and
budgetary processes). Knowledge and application of relevant Education
Policies, Prescripts and Legislation. National School Safety Framework Project
Planning. Skills: Report writing skills. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring
and evaluation skills. Problem solving skills Human relations skills. Analytical
skills. Negotiation skills. Conflict Management and Mediation Skills.
Communication skills (At least two of the official languages of WCG).
Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Policies, National /
Provincial School Safety Framework, work procedures and relevant policies in
schools. Ensure the establishment of a properly constituted and functional
safety committee. Assist with the development of a safety policy to protect the
property and keep employees and learners safe. Assist with the creation of a
comprehensive safety Plan which will include a Contingency Plan. The role of
each employee in maintaining workplace safety (include RCL, SGB and SMT).
Type of training each employee needs. Keep up to date with all aspects of
relevant health and safety workplace legislation and communicate relevant
changes. Conduct safety and security awareness campaigns and
programmes. Provide a high-level Safety Health Environmental (SHE)
consultancy and advisory service based on legal and other regulatory
frameworks. Regular inspections at Public Ordinary Schools and Special
Schools to check policies and procedures are being properly implemented.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the policies and procedures; and
drills conducted at Public Schools to DCES School Management and
Governance Support. Conduct Security audits / risk assessments / safety
inspections at Schools. Establish a full programme of documented health and
safety inspections, audits and assessments in relation to learner and employee
safety. Evaluate workplace safety / risk assessment / safety inspections and
consider how risks could be reduced. Establish safe working practices that
comply with legislation. Conduct safety inspections at schools regarding
evacuation drills and emergency alarms; safety risk assessments and standard
operating procedures; employees being aware of their responsibilities; ensure
safety equipment is installed safely and maintained, that records are kept of all
safety related matters. Provide a list of safety findings and recommendations
to the Principal. Procure safety infrastructure and services to limit risks. (align
with procurement policies). Assist the Safety Committee with the development
of an action plan. Monitor and report on the implementation of action plans.
Keep records of audit / assessments/ safety inspection findings and provide
relevant reports to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Support the effective management of District Occupational Health Safety
(OHS) Committee. Serve on the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee. Support the Corporate Services Component with the development
and implementation of a Health and Safety Plan for the Education District.
Mobilize and advocate safety and security at district level. Guide the
development and implementation of disaster management preparedness plan.
Report on the support given to the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee to the DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate Health and Safety Training for Public Ordinary and
Special Schools. Establish a structured programme of Health and Safety
Training within the Education District. Liaise with external health and safety
consultants in the provision of training programmes and health and safety
services. Coordinate the delivery of training (evacuation plans, fire prevention,
fire protection and hazardous materials communication). Ensure full an
accurate health and safety training records are maintained. Review training
feedback from employees. Maintain a database of employees who have
completed the required training. Report on the implementation of occupational
283
health and safety training to DCES School Management and Governance
Support. Coordinate and facilitate various attitudinal / behavioural programs to
support, modify or influence learner and educator behaviour to create safe
learning environments and promote quality teaching and learning. Organizing,
manage and facilitate all School Based Crime Control, Crime Prevention.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/417 : SCHOOL ENRICHMENT OFFICER REF NO: 195
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification or degree plus 2 years relevant administrative
experience (preferably in sport, culture or teaching environment). Valid code B
drivers’ licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant education policies and
procedures; Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures; Knowledge of
Public Financial Management (PFMA); Knowledge of Information Management
Systems; Knowledge of relevant Sport and Recreation Policies, regulations
and procedures; Knowledge of filing and recordkeeping. Skills: Written and
verbal communication (2 official languages of the Western Cape); Project
planning; Organising; Financial administration; Computer literacy;
Recordkeeping; Interpersonal; Report writing; Facilitation and presentation;
Analytical.
DUTIES : Monitoring the implementation of School Enrichment (SE) Policies.
Encouraging learner participation in sports by ensuring Public Schools
participate in intra and inter school enrichment activities. Ensuring that Public
Ordinary Schools and Public Special Schools promote social inclusion and
cultural diversity (music, dance, drama, sport and visual arts) through school
enrichment programmes. Collect, analyse, compile and update data on all
sport and recreational activities. Provide administrative and technical support
with regard to sport and recreation facilities and infrastructure. Procure and
ensure delivery of equipment to identified schools. Administer the system for
storage, maintenance, issue and return of sport and physical recreation
equipment. Examine, compile and monitor transfer payments of funded
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/418 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: 181
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification in finance / accounting or auditing plus 3 years
relevant administrative experience in a financial management environment.
Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, No.108 of 1996.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). South African schools Act, No. 84 of
1996. The Western Cape Provincial School Education Act, No.12 of 1997.
National Treasury Regulations. Government Gazette No. 35617 on Amended
National Norms and Standards for Schools Funding (NNSSF), 2012. Manual:
Basic Financial System for Public Ordinary Schools. Treasury Guidelines:
Preparation of Estimates for Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Budget
Prescriptions promulgated in Provincial Gazette 6103 of 23 January 2004.
Policy to Monitor the Financial Management Capability of all Public Ordinary
Schools (Draft) 2016. Knowledge of modern systems of governance and
administration. Knowledge of monitoring and reporting processes. Skills:
Financial Administration. Analytical thinking. Excellent written and verbal
Communications in at least two of the official languages in the Western Cape
Province (reports and submissions). Motivational. Organisational and
Planning. Numerical skills. Computer literacy. Presentation. Interpretation,
analyse and conceptualise. Ability to gather and process information.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate, administer and evaluate the Approved Budget of public Schools.
Facilitate, administer and evaluate the Annual Financial Statement of Public
Schools. Facilitate, administer and evaluate the bi-annual financial reports of
Public Schools. Administer Pre-Forensic Investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East EDO).
284
POST 17/419 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: 194
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification in finance / accounting or auditing plus 3 years
relevant administrative experience in a financial management environment.
Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, No.108 of 1996.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). South African schools Act, No. 84 of
1996. The Western Cape Provincial School Education Act, No.12 of 1997.
National Treasury Regulations. Government Gazette No. 35617 on Amended
National Norms and Standards for Schools Funding (NNSSF), 2012. Manual:
Basic Financial System for Public Ordinary Schools. Treasury Guidelines:
Preparation of Estimates for Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Budget
Prescriptions promulgated in Provincial Gazette 6103 of 23 January 2004.
Policy to Monitor the Financial Management Capability of all Public Ordinary
Schools (Draft) 2016. Knowledge of modern systems of governance and
administration. Knowledge of monitoring and reporting processes. Skills:
Financial Administration. Analytical thinking. Excellent written and verbal
Communications in at least two of the official languages in the Western Cape
Province (reports and submissions). Motivational. Organisational and
Planning. Numerical skills. Computer literacy. Presentation. Interpretation,
analyse and conceptualise. Ability to gather and process information.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate, administer and evaluate the Approved Budget of public Schools.
Facilitate, administer and evaluate the Annual Financial Statement of Public
Schools. Facilitate, administer and evaluate the bi-annual financial reports of
Public Schools. Administer Pre-Forensic Investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/420 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 228
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A degree (NQF 7) or higher in Accounting; A minimum of three years?
experience in an Accounting and/or auditing environment; A valid (Code B or
higher) driver's licence. Additional Requirements: Willingness to work overtime
when required. Knowledge: Knowledge of the financial policies and regulations
i.e. Public Financial Management Act (PFMA); the National Treasury
Instruction (NTI) and Provincial Treasury Regulation (PTR). Knowledge of
financial processes and financial systems (BAS & LOGIS). Good
understanding of cashflow and budgets. Knowledge and understanding of
financial statements. Skills: An understanding of the Standard Chart of
Accounts (SCOA). Ability to analyse and interpret data. Knowledge of modern
systems of governance and administration. Good computer skills in Excel
Good analytical, problem solving and decision-making skills Ability to work
under pressure and independently in a fast-paced environment Good
accounting, analytical and communication skills (verbal and written). Excellent
written and verbal communication skills in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape. Planning and organising skills. Conceptual
and formulation skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for checking and capturing transactions on Financial Systems
Verify and capture payments on payment system/s. Prepare and/or compile
payments in preparation for processing of transactions on financial systems
Report on expenditure vs budget to supervisor and or other stakeholders.
Ensure completeness and timeous approval of invoices on payment systems
in line with policies and procedures. Creation use and maintenance of
databases. Preparing/authorising corrective journals. Report regularly to
supervisor regarding compliance and assist with the preparation of inputs for
the monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reporting. Assist with updating a
Financial Commitment Register. Manage enquiries and payment detail from
contractors, professional service providers, implementing agents, and
management. Providing inputs to Interim Financial Statements/Annual
Financial Statements. Ensure compliance in terms of reporting due dates and
monitor report schedule including reminding managers/ responsible persons to
submit timeously. Manage auditor request and assist in collating responses for
285
the auditor. Ensure effective implementation and monitoring of financial
policies and guidelines. Co-ordination and preparation of
submissions/presentations to management. General supervision of employees
including managing performance, conduct and discipline. Assist with all
general and financial administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Adendorff Tel No: (021) 467 2506
POST 17/421 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: 236 (X5
POSTS)
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: A relevant National Diploma or Degree in Finance. Note: The
successful candidate will at times be required to work irregular hours and also
travel. Candidates must be prepared to do a practical test as part of the
shortlisting/evaluation process. Knowledge: Knowledge of financial policies
and regulations. Knowledge of financial processes. Ability to analyse and
interpret financial data. Advanced computer literacy in Microsoft Office
applications (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Technical knowledge of financial
systems. Excellent written and verbal communication skills in at least two of
the three official languages of the Western Cape. Knowledge of financial data
modelling. Strong analytical, problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Skills: Excellent written and
verbal communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Knowledge of financial data modelling. Strong analytical,
problem-solving and decision-making skills. Ability to work independently and
under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide support with regards to the financial processes within the Department,
for example the formulation and maintenance of budget model and
communications to managers. Ensure effective implementation of financial
policies and guidelines and assist in the formulation of thereof. Costing of
projects/related activities including providing advice on the outcome of these
costing. Analyse expenditure trends and deviations and provide report to
management. Prepare monthly reports and identify deviations and report on
the outcome of the analysis. Assist with the reallocation of funds and monitor
movement of funds allocated within the budget after reprioritization. Ability to
assist and support financial data modelling. Analyse and interpret financial data
and prepare a submission on the findings to management. Perform a support
function to institutional funding including communication and payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PPP Adams Tel No: (021) 467 2225.
POST 17/422 : ADMIN OFFICER: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 77
Directorate: infrastructure delivery management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree/ diploma with minimum 3 years relevant experience
or Grade 12 with 6 years appropriate experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of
modern systems of governance and administration. Knowledge of the
government policies and legislation. Knowledge of constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector Skills:
Computer literacy skills. Analytical and system thinking skills. Conceptual and
formulation skills. Excellent communication skills. Planning and organising
skills.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance in terms of reporting due dates and monitor report schedule
including reminding managers/ responsible persons to submit timeously.
Manage auditor request and assist in collating responses for the auditor. Keep
track of correspondence and submissions issued in relation to physical
resources projects. Draft correspondence and submissions as directed by
senior personnel. Perform general administrative duties such as compiling a
Leave Register and processing of Leave Application forms. Assist with the
procurement function in the directorate including the placement of orders,
receiving goods and facilitating payments. Maintaining an Invoice Register,
process payments on BAS (compile, capture, authorize) and or LOGIS and
maintain proper audit trail. Support a proper filing system to documents,
286
payments and related correspondence. Assist with updating a Financial
Commitment Register. Assist with the administrative process related to schools
building projects and contract agreements. Assist with all property-related
matters such as clear sits, acquisition of facilities and municipal queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 17/423 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 238
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree / diploma with minimum 3-5 years relevant
experience or Grade 12 with 6-10 years appropriate experience. Knowledge:
Knowledge of modern systems of governance and administration. Knowledge
of the government policies and legislation. Knowledge of constitutional, legal
and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector.
Skills: Analytical and systems thinking skills. Written and oral communication
skills. Planning and organizing skills. Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance in terms of reporting due dates and monitor report
schedule. Manage auditor requests and assist in collating responses for the
auditor. Negotiation of Lease Agreements and renewal of expired Lease
Agreements for public schools on private property. Assist with the renewal of
contracts and rental agreements. Draft submissions in respect of rent
increases, renewals and terminations. Draft submissions for ministerial
approval for School Governing Body building projects/ leasing out of school
property (Circular 18 applications). Keep track of correspondence and
submissions issued in relation to physical resources projects. Facilitate
enquiries regarding leases, rental payments, and Circular 18 applications.
Management of requests from schools on private property. Perform general
administrative duties such as maintaining Lease & property management
databases and dealing with telephonic and email enquiries relating thereto.
Assist with and facilitate a payment function in the directorate. Assist with the
monthly lease calculations and sourcing of documents to facilitate payment of
leases and suppliers. Assist with the processing of payments on BAS and
BasInterface. Assist with document control for DFA to authorise payments on
BASIS. Ensure compliance to internal policies and Standard Operating
procedures. Support a proper filing system to document payments and related
correspondence. Assist with updating a lease commitment register. Assist with
a support function to the Property Management team. Perform an
administrative support function to senior personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 17/424 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PAYMENTS - CONTRACT
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 240
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognized 3-year qualification (degree or diploma) with 2 years’
experience in the Supply Chain Management field dealing with payment of
suppliers, LOGIS Payments and BAS Payments. Training Certificates (BAS &
LOGIS) will be required, plus a valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge
of SCM Practices, processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement and
Financial legislation, Knowledge of LOGIS, BAS or similar transversal
procurement systems or electronic quotation system or payment system. Skills:
Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel and Access; Good verbal and written
communication skills; organizational and planning skills; report writing, problem
solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Attend to the pre-authorisation of payments and/or final payments for goods
delivered and services rendered within 30 days of receipt of the invoices
(subject to compliance of all requirements). Attend to the receiving of goods
delivered. Ensure that the reconciliation of statements and follow-up of
outstanding invoices of service providers/suppliers are attended to accordingly.
Assist with the enquiries on payments from officials and suppliers/service
providers. Assist with the supervision and management of staff as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821.
287
POST 17/425 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: BID CALLER REF NO: 241 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
at least 2-years practical experience in a purchasing/selling environment
(dealing with purchasing and selling of goods/services through quotations or
tenders); plus, Valid Driving Licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM
Practices, processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement and financial
legislation, Knowledge of Logis or similar transversal procurement systems and
an electronic quotation system. Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel
and Access; Good verbal and written communication skills; organisational and
planning skills; report writing, problem solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the receipt and opening of bids; Issue letters of acceptance and
Contract Forms to successful bidders and inform unsuccessful bidders and
non-compliant bidders of the reasons for being unsuccessful or non-compliant;
compile Service Level Agreements in consultation with Legal Advisory services
and facilitate the signing of same by service providers; Consult various
databases in the execution of assigned tasks; Evaluate bids/quotations
received and determine capability and ability of recommended bidders; Verify
bidder’s declaration of interest; Apply the Preferential Procurement Policy;
Compile memoranda to the Evaluation Committee, Quotation Committee, Bid
Committee and delegated officials regarding the award, rejection or
cancellation of offers received; Present recommendations at the Evaluation,
Quotation and Bid Committee meetings; Advertise awards in line with
prescripts; Undertake compulsory reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821
POST 17/426 : ADMIN OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 242 (X2 POSTS)
directorate: asset management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognized 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
minimum 2 years appropriate experience in Procurement and/or Supply Chain
Management with knowledge of Asset Management. A valid driver’s license.
Recommendation: Proficient in figures with mathematics or accountancy
passed as a subject at senior certificate or tertiary level. Computer literacy in
MS Word and Excel. Good verbal and written communication skills in at least
two of the official languages of the Western Cape Province. Knowledge:
Knowledge, interpretation and application of legislation which include: PFMA
(Public Finance Management Act), Accounting Officers System and Treasury
Regulations. Ability to work within a team as well as independently. Ability to
prioritise and organise work whilst functioning under pressure to handle high
volumes and meet strict deadlines. Thorough knowledge of Asset
Management. Skills: Proficient in figures, with mathematics or accountancy
passed as a subject at senior certificate or tertiary level. Computer literacy in
MS Word and Excel. Good verbal and written communication skills in at least
two of the official languages of the Western Cape Province.
DUTIES : Do reconciliations between all systems, i.e. BAS and LOGIS, maintain the
WCED asset register and individual inventories by recording updates in respect
of additions, movements, replacements, transfers, marking and bar-coding of
assets, record the maintenance, operational condition and performance
standards of assets, submit memoranda to the delegated person regarding the
write-off of losses/damages and disposal of assets, dispose of written off
assets, manage and record losses and report losses to the Lost Control Officer,
manage and undertake stock takes and inspections at Head Office and District
Offices, verify the existence of assets at the recorded locations, reconcile the
physical stock take results with Logis/Hardcat, report on stock take results,
assess the optimal utilisation of state assets and redeployment where
necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Betz Tel No: (021) 467 2804
288
POST 17/427 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
244 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
at least 2-years practical experience in contract management including
purchasing/selling environment (dealing with purchasing and selling of
goods/services through quotations or tenders); plus Valid Driving Licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM Practices, processes and procedures. PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement and other applicable financial
legislation; Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS or similar transversal procurement
systems and electronic quotation systems. Skills: Computer literacy in MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams and Access; Good verbal and
written communication skills; organisational and planning skills; report writing,
problem solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Compile Service Level Agreements in consultation with Legal Service;
Facilitate the signing of Service Level Agreements by service providers;
Monitor and report on the quarterly performance of contractors; Administer
breach of contract and default procedures in terms of the General and Special
Conditions of Contract; Assist with queries from Contractors and Internal
Stakeholders; Consider, compile and present memoranda to the Bid
Committee and delegated official regarding the requests for price adjustments,
cession of contracts, transfer, extension, expansion, amendment and
termination of contracts; Liaise with Legal Services regarding the
breach/termination of contracts and/or restriction of service
providers/suppliers; Maintain the departmental Contract Register, Register of
Complaints and Poor Performance and Register of Legal Advice sought;
Monitor the contract expiry dates and liaise timeously with the end user in terms
of the renewal of contracts; Consult various databases in the execution of
assigned tasks; Consult with National Treasury regarding
restriction/blacklisting of service providers/suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821.
POST 17/428 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: EPS BUYER REF NO: 245 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
at least a total of 2-years administrative experience including that in a
purchasing/selling environment (dealing with purchasing and selling of
goods/services through quotations or tenders); plus, Valid Driving Licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM Practices, processes and procedures,
Preferential Procurement and financial legislation, Knowledge of LOGIS or
similar transversal procurement systems or an electronic quotation system.
Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel, Access and Outlook (or similar e-
mail tool); Good verbal and written communication skills; organisational and
planning skills; report writing, problem solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Clarify specifications with end users regarding their needs; Compile relevant
bidding documents containing detailed specifications in line with the relevant
bid requirements and a tentative time-line; Consult same with the end user for
sign-off; Present specifications to the Specifications Committee for verification,
where relevant; compile and submit memoranda to the relevant Quotation
Committee(s) and Bid Committee and delegated official motivating the award
of a quotation in line with the delegations; Create a sourcing event on the
Electronic Procurement Solution (EPS); Request for Quotations (RFQs) for
travel and accommodation related services; Advertise the event after
determining possible suppliers for the commodity, using the Western Cape
Supplier Evidence Bank (WCESB); Verify bidder’s declaration of interest and
B-BBEE status; Evaluate RFQs; Consult various databases in the execution of
assigned tasks; determine the capability and ability of a recommended bidder;
Clarify budget availability commensurate with cost of goods/services Issue
letters of acceptance and contract documents to successful bidders; Deal with
end user and supplier enquiries; assist suppliers to register on the supplier
databases; Undertake on-line adjudication of approved events; Consult various
289
databases in the execution of assigned tasks; Compile entire procurement
pack compliant with all requirements; Assist with the receipt and opening of
bids; Maintain various registers within the environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821
POST 17/429 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: BID EVALUATION REF NO: 246
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
at least 2-years practical experience in a purchasing/selling environment
(dealing with purchasing and selling of goods/services through quotations or
tenders); plus, Valid Driving Licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM
Practices, processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement and financial
legislation, Knowledge of Logis or similar transversal procurement systems and
an electronic quotation system. Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel
and Access; Good verbal and written communication skills; organisational and
planning skills; report writing, problem solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the receipt and opening of bids; Issue letters of acceptance and
Contract Forms to successful bidders and inform unsuccessful bidders and
non-compliant bidders of the reasons for being unsuccessful or noncompliant;
compile Service Level Agreements in consultation with Legal Advisory services
and facilitate the signing of same by service providers; Consult various
databases in the execution of assigned tasks; Evaluate bids/quotations
received and determine capability and ability of recommended bidders; Verify
bidder’s declaration of interest; Apply the Preferential Procurement Policy;
Compile memoranda to the Evaluation Committee, Quotation Committee, Bid
Committee and delegated officials regarding the award, rejection or
cancellation of offers received; Present recommendations at the Evaluation,
Quotation and Bid Committee meetings; Advertise awards in line with
prescripts; Undertake compulsory reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821
POST 17/430 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LEARNING AND TEACHING SUPPORT
MATERIAL(LTSM) REF NO: 249
Directorate: Institutional Resource Support (In Lib Serv)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant recognised 3-year qualification (Degree or National Diploma) plus
at least a total of 3-years administrative and 2-years supervisory experience in
a supply chain management environment including that in a purchasing/selling
environment; and Valid Driving Licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM
Practices, processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement and financial
legislation, Knowledge of Logis or similar transversal procurement systems and
an electronic quotation system. Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel,
Access and Outlook (or similar e-mail tool); Good verbal and written
communication skills; organisational and planning skills; report writing, problem
solving and numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Receive requisitions for the procurement of learner teacher support material;
Clarify specifications with schools regarding their needs; Provide guidance to
officials in capturing requisitions on LOGIS; Approve requisitions on LOGIS;
Processing of procurement advice; Processing and approval of orders; Assist
with the administration and pre-authorisation of payments; Capture and advise
on LOGIS processes/functions in supply chain management; Maintain
allocations and expenditure for LTSM; Compile entire procurement pack
compliant with all requirements; Maintain various registers within the
environment; Supervision of officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Henriques Tel No: (021) 467 2767
POST 17/431 : SOCIAL WORKER REF NO: 127
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 200 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Worcester
290
REQUIREMENTS : A formal tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker, and proof of
payment of registration for 2024-2025; Grade 1: No experience; Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration
as a Social Worker with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions. Job Summary: To render a
school social work service to Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools within
the Education District. Knowledge: Inclusive Education Policies, guidelines and
practices. Analytic, diagnostic, assessment tools, evaluation methods and
processes (Social Worker). Social Work legislation related to children. Social
work theory and interventions. Information and Knowledge Management.
Protocol and professional ethics. Skills: Organising and planning. Project
Planning. Psychosocial intervention. Communication and language (2 Official
languages). Interpersonal. Report writing. Computer literacy. Presentation and
facilitation. Problem Solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus.
DUTIES : Implement social work capacity building programmes for the early identification
of and interventions relating to social, emotional and behavioural barriers to
learning: Train teachers, parents, and support staff in the early identification of
social, emotional and behavioural barriers. Train teachers, parents, and
support staff to manage identified learners who experience social, emotional
and behavioural barriers (e.g. Individual Support Plan (ISP)/Group Support
Plan (GSP). Develop and implement preventative programmes for learners,
parents and School Governing Body (SGBs) that address and/or prevent
social, emotional and behavioural barriers to learning. Implementation of
Inclusive Education Policies including the Screening Identification and
Assessment Support (SIAS) Policy. o Provide direct social work services when
necessary. Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations:
Promote inclusive schools as centres of Care and Support for Teaching and
Learning (CSTL) and use this framework to co-ordinate the support from other
sectors. Collaborate on social work matters with the multi-disciplinary teams.
Provide specialised social work support to strengthen District- and School-
based support teams (DBSTs/SBSTs): Train, sustain and promote SBSTs in
collaboration with the DBST in all Schools in understanding social context,
legislation related to children and create an effective school-community
partnership. Collaborate as multi-disciplinary teams with ISLES DBST to
support learners who experience barriers to learning. Provide social work input
for the district with regard to policy development and reviews. Conduct
discipline specific research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/432 : SCHOOL LIBRARY SERVICE OFFICER: LIBRARY SERVICES REF NO:
213
District Office: Education District Office Overberg
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and a relevant National Diploma or degree in Library
and information Science or related. 1 year' relevant librarian experience. Valid
driver's license. Knowledge: Library and Information Science Matters.
Knowledge of National and Provincial Library Policies and Legislation.
Knowledge of procedures and processes. Knowledge of National and
Provincial Education Policies and Legislation. Knowledge of National
Curriculum Statements. Skills: Organizing, problem solving, conflict
management customer care and good interpersonal relations. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, SLIMS). Financial administration skills. Ability to work
under pressure. Communication skills in 2 official languages. Analytical
thinking.
DUTIES : Implementation of National and Provincial Libraries Policies: Assist Head
Office with the development of Provincial/National Policies, Develop the District
implementation plan for the role out of the School Library Policy, Information
291
sessions with different role players (Principals, teachers, district officials),
Training of School Library Coordinators, Monitor the implementation of the
School Library Policy at school level, Report on the implementation of the
School Library Policy. Training and development of School library coordinator
(Teacher, student, parent): Conduct a training need analysis, Identify School
Library Coordinators for training and development purposes in the library within
the district or at the CTLI, Plan and prepare training material, visual aids and
other support material necessary to implement training, Present and facilitate
targeted library courses, Liaise and develop partnership with other library
based organizations/NGOs/ Museums / Public Libraries, Follow up session
with school library coordinator with the implementation of the training, Support,
monitor, evaluate and report on the implementation of the training intervention,
Prepare summary report based program evaluations (External Service
Providers), Support the nominations of teachers for the professional
development as well as the provincial and national teachers awards.
Implementation of DBE/WCED requirements for Special projects (library):
Assist EDULIS with the compilation of the project plan, Manage the
implementation of the project plan at the district level, Evaluate the roll-out of
the special project, Report on the implementation of the DBE requirements for
the special projects. Provide guidance and support to Public and Special
Ordinary School with the development and maintenance of the appropriate
School Library Model and Service (Classroom- / Cluster - /Mobile- /Centralised-
Community School library): Conduct site visits to provide guidance and
supports during the development phases of the chosen School Library Model,
Advise the type of model to be used according to national/provincial guidelines,
Assist the Principal and SGB with the development and design of the School
Library Model, Assist Directorate Physical Resource Planning and Property
Management with recommendations regarding infrastructure (library) changes
or refurbishments, Assist the Principal and SGB with the compilations of a
school library committee (Centralised Library), Assist the committee with the
compilation of the School Library Policy which should be aligned with the
School improvement plan (mission and vision), Advise on management,
administration, staffing and training, collection development, programmes and
activities, marketing and advocacy , monitoring and evaluations, Collate and
report monthly / quarterly / annually on library services. Promote and support
reading and literacy programmes: Assist the curriculum/learner support
component with projects and initiatives, Facilitate the process of provisioning
of library materials (e.g., block loans from Edulis/ Public Libraries), Implement,
promote and support international and national library and literacy celebrations
(WCED minute/circulars), Manage the disseminations of donations of library
materials/ resources from private organisations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7300 (Overberg EDO).
POST 17/433 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 207
Directorate: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Matric / Grade 12 Certificate, 6 years relevant financial experience required.
Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as the
ability to capture date, operate computer and collate financial statistics. Basic
knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial legislations, procedures
and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial
Manual) Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS, etc.) Skills: Computer operating skills (accounting system), Planning
and organisation, Language, Good verbal and written communication skills,
Basic Numeracy skills, Ability to perform routine tasks and Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and render financial accounting transactions. Receive and allocate
payment advices. Verify payment advices and supporting documents for
correctness, verification and approval. Draw Monthly Document Control Report
and ensure the completeness of the payment batched. Ensure timeous
submission of payment batches to Head Office. Supervise the filing of all
documents. Supervise collection of petty cash. Supervise and payslip
administration support services. Receive and distribute payslips and
IRP5¿¿¿s. Obtain signatures. Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise
and render financial accounting transactions. Verify all financial transactions
captured. Record debtors and creditors. Verify and process the processing of
292
electronic banking transactions. Render a budget support service. Verify
information collected from fund managers and feedback to them. Compare and
verify the comparison of expenditure against budget. Identify variances and
verify the identification of variances. Verify the capturing, allocations virements
on budgets. Responsible for the distribution of documents with regard to the
budget. Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise the receipt and
capturing of cash payments. Supervision of staff. Allocate and ensure quality
of work. Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO).
POST 17/434 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (DEBTORS)
REF NO: 229
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate with Accounting or Mathematics. At least 4-6 years
relevant work experience in working/dealing with debts. Supervisory
experience. Recommendation: The following will serve as strong
recommendations: National Diploma in Financial Accounting, Knowledge and
experience in Finance Directorate (debt follow up and collection of outstanding
debt). Knowledge: Competencies: Knowledge of: Systems (PERSAL and
BAS); PFMA; Treasury Regulations and other relevant legislation; reporting
procedures; Skills: Computer literate with (MS Word & MS Excel) Excellent
report writing skills; Problem solving; Financial management, good
interpersonal- and communication skills in at least two of the official languages
of the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Follow up and collection of outstanding state debts. Preparing of referral cases
to the Debt Collector/State Attorney. Write-off of irrecoverable debts.
Check/Authorise BAS transactions. Check/Approve PERSAL transactions.
Clearing of Debt suspense account. Manage debtor’s database. Supervise and
control subordinates and section. Answering audit queries and debt queries.
Compiling monthly Accounts receivable reports for In Year Monitoring. Compile
inputs to the Interim & Annual Financial Statements
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Adendorff Tel No: (021) 467 2506.
POST 17/435 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 231
Directorate: Financial Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate with Accounting or Mathematics. At least 4-6 years
relevant work experience in working/dealing with debts. Supervisory
experience. Recommendation: The following will serve as strong
recommendations: National Diploma in Financial Accounting, Knowledge and
experience in Finance Directorate (debt follow up and collection of outstanding
debt). Knowledge: Competencies: Knowledge of: Systems (PERSAL and
BAS); PFMA; Treasury Regulations and other relevant legislation; reporting
procedures; Skills: Computer literate with (MS Word & MS Excel) Excellent
report writing skills; Problem solving; Financial management, good
interpersonal- and communication skills in at least two of the official languages
of the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Follow up and collection of outstanding state debts. Preparing of referral cases
to the Debt Collector/State Attorney. Write-off of irrecoverable debts.
Check/Authorise BAS transactions. Check/Approve PERSAL transactions.
Clearing of Debt suspense account. Manage debtor’s database. Supervise and
control subordinates and section. Answering audit queries and debt queries.
Compiling monthly Accounts receivable reports for In Year Monitoring. Compile
inputs to the Interim & Annual Financial Statements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Adendorff Tel No: (021) 467 2506
POST 17/436 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING:
TRAINING AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 100
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
293
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus 6-10 years clerical/administrative experience drivers Code 8
license. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment.
Knowledge of employee relations related process and systems. Knowledge of
related prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator/public servant prescripts.
Labour relations Act (LRA) 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of
1998 Public Service Act 1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. Basic understanding of
modern labour relations management / development and its processes,
methods and techniques. Skills: Computer literate. Good written and oral
communication skills. Numeracy, Literacy, Function as a team member. Sound
organising and planning skills. Be able to solve problems and resolve conflict
situations. Decision-making. Creative. Must have good interpersonal and
leadership skills. Analytical skills. Teamwork and flexibility skills.
DUTIES : Controlling, ordering and issuing of Stationery, routine/not too complex
correspondence, administering the filing system, maintenance and update
statistics and records, keeping up to date registers, administration of the
budget, Ensure the distribution of circulars, circular minutes and recording
thereof within the Directorate, Supervision of sub-ordinates, guidance and
support to the functionaries in terms of general administrative matters, control
and payment of accounts procurement off goods and services for the
directorate, planning layout and typing of documents in accordance with the
policy and guidelines of the WCED.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Syster Tel No: (021) 467 2399
POST 17/437 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FACILITY: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: 129
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 years relevant clerical experience. A valid driver
licence. Knowledge: Public Service Act, 1994 and Regulations; Departmental
Acts, policies, circulars, processes and procedures; OHS Act, 1993 and
regulations; Norms and standards for office accommodation; Record
Management Act and procedures; Health and Safety Act. Skills:
Communication skills; Organising skills; Presentation skills; Ability to motivate
personnel; Problem-solving skills; Computer literacy; Ability to delegate
effectively; Health and Safety Skills; Report writing; Interpersonal skills.
Interpretation. Language (2 official languages of the western cape
government).
DUTIES : Responsible for supervision of receptionist service at district level. Responsible
for supervision of telecommunication service at district level. Responsible for
infrastructure, accommodation and grounds. Responsible for Occupational
Health and Safety at District Level. (District Office and Service Points).
Supervision of employees/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/438 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FACILITIES REF NO: 161
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 years relevant clerical experience years in
logistical support. A valid driver licence. Knowledge: Public Service Act, 1994
and Regulations; Departmental Acts, policies, circulars, processes and
procedures; OHS Act, 1993 and regulations; Norms and standards for office
accommodation; SCM policies and procedures; Disaster Management Act,
2002; Record Management Act and procedures; Health and Safety Act. Skills:
Communication skills; Organising skills; Presentation skills; Ability to motivate
personnel; Problem-solving skills; Computer literacy; Ability to delegate
effectively; Health and Safety Skills; Report writing; Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for supervision of receptionist service at district level. Responsible
for supervision of telecommunication service at district level. Responsible for
infrastructure, accommodation and grounds. Responsible for Occupational
294
Health and Safety at District Level. (District Office and Service Points).
Supervision of employees/staff. Monitor evaluate and quality control of various
logistical support services within the district. Compile and submit weekly /
monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO
POST 17/439 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FACILITY: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: 186
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 years relevant clerical experience. A valid driver
licence. To provide office support and facility management service at district
level. Knowledge: Public Service Act, 1994 and Regulations; Departmental
Acts, policies, circulars, processes and procedures; OHS Act, 1993 and
regulations; Norms and standards for office accommodation; Record
Management Act and procedures; Health and Safety Act. Skills:
Communication skills; Organising skills; Presentation skills; Ability to motivate
personnel; Problem-solving skills; Computer literacy; Ability to delegate
effectively; Health and Safety Skills; Report writing; Interpersonal skills.
Interpretation. Language (2 official languages of the western cape
government).
DUTIES : Responsible for supervision of receptionist service at district level. Responsible
for supervision of telecommunication service at district level. Responsible for
infrastructure, accommodation and grounds. Responsible for Occupational
Health and Safety at District Level. (District Office and Service Points).
Supervision of employees/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/440 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: KNOWLEDGE AND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT REF NO:104
Directorate: Knowledge And Information Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate with 3 years registry experience. Knowledge:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Knowledge of the National Archives and Record Management
Act. Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills; Interpersonal relations; Computer skills; Planning and
organisation skills; Language (2 Official Languages); Good verbal and written
communication skills; Report writing skills; Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter and driver / messenger service.
Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise
and render and effective filing and record management service. Supervise the
operation and operate office machines in relation to the registry function.
Supervise the processing and process documents for archiving and / disposal.
Supervise the receive and sending of faxes. Supervision of employees/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Hansraj Tel No: (021) 467 2086
POST 17/441 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 113
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 senior certificate or equivalent qualification. A valid driver’s license.
Certificate in Records management. A recognized qualification in Records
Management or Public administration or related field is an advantage. Good
communication skills both written and verbal in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape. Minimum 3-5 years’ experience in registry or
records management environment. Proficiency in MS Office and
understanding and experience in document management systems would be
an advantage. Strong communication, leadership, planning, interpersonal and
295
organizational skills. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures. Public
Service Legislation and procedures. Relevant records Management and
Archives Act/s and related instructions. Knowledge of Labour Relations.
Knowledge of electronic document management systems Skills:
Communication skills. Interpersonal relations/teamwork skills. Ability to
interpret and apply policies and guidelines. Managerial/Supervisory skills.
Computer literacy skills. Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Oversee HR registry operations, ensuring accurate record keeping, safe
storage and efficient retrieval of information. Supervise and coordinate
activities of the HR registry team. Manage the receipt, classification, indexing,
filing, tracking and dispatch/movement of HR-related documents. Maintain
both manual and electronic records in accordance with the WCED records
management policies. Implement procedures for the safe storage and timely
disposal of records as per the National Archives and Records Service Act and
Western Cape Archive and Records Service Act. Ensure confidentiality and
integrity of sensitive of HR. records. Provide training, guidance and
performance support to registry staff. Perform all supervisory functions with
regard to the registry clerks. Liaise effectively and efficiently with all relevant
stakeholders. Prepare reports and support audits and compliance checks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 17/442 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: LOGISTICAL SERVICES REF NO: 134
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate with 3 years registry experience. Knowledge: Knowledge
of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry.
Knowledge of the National Archives and Record Management Act. Knowledge
of departmental policies and procedures. Skills: Communication skills;
Interpersonal relations; Computer skills; Planning and organisation skills;
Language (2 Official Languages); Good verbal and written communication
skills; Report writing skills; Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter and driver / messenger service.
Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise
and render and effective filing and record management service. Supervise the
operation and operate office machines in relation to the registry function.
Supervise the processing and process documents for archiving and / disposal.
Supervise the receive and sending of faxes. Supervision of employees/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/443 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 197
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate with 3 years registry experience. Knowledge:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Knowledge of the National Archives and Record Management
Act. Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. Skills:
Communication skills; Interpersonal relations; Computer skills; Planning and
organisation skills; Language (2 Official Languages); Good verbal and written
communication skills; Report writing skills; Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter and driver / messenger service.
Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise
and render and effective filing and record management service. Supervise the
operation and operate office machines in relation to the registry function.
Supervise the processing and process documents for archiving and / disposal.
Supervise the receive and sending of faxes. Supervision of employees/staff
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
296
POST 17/444 : TRANSPORT CONTROL OFFICER REF NO: 204
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 years clerical experience. A valid drivers'
licence. Knowledge: Public Service Act and Regulations. PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Department of Transport Policies (GG Transport). WCED Acts,
policies, circulars, processes and procedures Skills: Financial. Interpretation of
prescripts. Organising and planning. Report writing. Motivation. Interpersonal.
Communication (2 official languages).
DUTIES : Monitor, maintenance and control the GG fleet at the district. Apply and register
new GG users with GMT and provide all relevant documentation. Monitor the
update of motor drivers’ licenses register (file) of all personnel. Monitoring all
trip authorities and garaging. Monitor that the drivers of vehicles have
knowledge of prescribes contain in the transport circular for usage by providing
a copy of the circular in the logbook. Monitor that all trips are recorded in the
logbook. Ensure that control over toll card systems by verifying with trip
authority and register as well as verification for payment to GMT. Monitor that
all logbooks are signed off at the end of every month, verified and submitted to
Head Office and GMT. Expenditure as indicated in the logbook is verified with
the invoice of GMT before payment is done. Compile and submit monthly
utilisation report to Head office. Management of fleet on a daily basis.
Monitoring of registers (daily incoming, outgoing and security) for control
purposes. Allocate pool vehicles to users for optimal use. Monitor the daily
inspection of vehicles after trips and execute necessary actions. Reconcile GG
invoice with utilisation report and verify the expenditure for payment by Head
Office. Liaise with GMT for replacement vehicles. Check claims for damage
submitted by GMT, verify and submit to Head Office for payment. Ensure that
vehicles are roadworthy, serviceable, licenced and parked securely. Organise
service of vehicles, replacements of tires, batteries and cleaning of vehicles.
Coordinate and facilitate the administration of fines. Analyse the database and
follow-up on disciplinary actions. Ensure that in the case of accidents, the driver
reports it to the SAPD and the accident report is handed in by the official. The
transport officer coordinates and finalise the accident report. The transport
officer is responsible for the organising of breakdown services. Obtain
quotations for minor vehicle damage due to accidents and obtain the relevant
reports from users for GMT. Coordinate and manage the submission of log
sheets / accident reports / fines and holiday garaging for Public Special School
vehicles. Order taxi transport as per request from GMT. Responsible for the
collection, verification and filing of taxi trip authorizes. Verify of invoice of GMT
before sending for payment. Administer, verify and monitor the use of rentals.
Receive application for use of private rental cars. • Responsible to collect and
inspect rental cars. Ensure that vehicle is entered into the rental register, open
logbook and follow procedure of GG-vehicles up to payment. Supervision of
employees/staff General supervision of employees. Allocate duties and do
quality control of the work delivered by employees. Advice and lead employees
with regard to all aspects of work. Assess staff performance. Development of
employees to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient and effective functioning. Manage and promote the
maintenance of discipline. Participation in the recruitment and selection of staff,
where required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO).
POST 17/445 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: INCLUSIVE EDUCATION & SPECIAL
PROGRAMMES REF NO: 67
Chief Directorate: Inclusive Education & Special Programmes
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Qualification; an accredited Secretarial/Office Administration Diploma/
Certificate and minimum of 3 years relevant experience in rendering
administrative support services to management. Knowledge: Good
communicator, creative, innovative skills and well-organised. Knowledge on
the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedure; Basic financial
administration, proactive and organized with proven business report writing
297
and excellent communication skills. Good office and financial administration.
Computer literate and fully aware of good social media etiquette. Knowledge
of financial systems (BAS and PERSAL), IMS and J-track will be an advantage.
Skills: Sound planning and organising skills; minute taking; Communicate
effectively (written and verbally); Advanced typing, Ability to deal
enquiries/complaints pertaining with a wide variety of functions/ activities within
the Department.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the HoD, which include
organising and maintaining diaries and making appointments. Rendering
administrative support services in the office of the HoD; producing documents,
briefing papers, reports and presentations. Provide support to HoD and Office
Manager regarding meetings. Analyse information and compile complex
documents/submissions of strategic nature for the MEC, HoD and members of
Top Management, Draft submissions, letters, internal memorandums etc.
Remain abreast with the policies, procedures and processes that apply in the
office. Support the Office Manager with budget management; ensure financial
objectives are met; schedule expenditures; analysing variances; initiating
corrective actions and report back to Office Manager. Assist Office Manager in
mentoring staff/interns in office. Ability to project manage events and plan
ahead; contribute to team effort and success of projects with Office Manager.
Maintain office efficiency by planning and implementing office systems,
layouts, and equipment procurement required by the HoD. Devising and
maintaining effective and efficient office systems, including data management
and filing. Arranging travel, visas and accommodation. Taking minutes of
meetings or provide general assistance during presentations. Screening phone
calls, enquiries and handling all requests. Meeting and greeting visitors at all
levels of seniority. Dealing with incoming email, faxes and post, often
corresponding on behalf of the manager. Organising meetings and ensuring
the manager is well prepared for meetings. Liaising with clients, suppliers and
other staff. Carrying out background research and presenting findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AJE Meyer Tel No: (021) 467 2105
POST 17/446 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 68
Chief: Business Intelligence Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Qualification; an accredited Secretarial/Office Administration Diploma/
Certificate and a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in rendering
administrative support services to management. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedure; Basic financial
administration. Computer literacy in MS Word, MS PowerPoint and MS Excel,
Knowledge of financial systems e.g., BAS and PERSAL, IMS and J-track, will
be an advantage. Skills: Sound planning and organising skills; Communicate
effectively (written and verbally); Advanced typing.
DUTIES : Plan activities for example: diary management, travel itineraries, document
flow in the office, do basic research. Provide a secretarial/receptionist support
service to the Directorate, which includes procurement, maintain a record
system, manage assets and record minutes of meetings. Render
administrative support services in Directorate. Provide support to manager
regarding meetings including logistical arrangements, keeping track of due
dates. Analyse information and compile complex documents/ submissions
/reports of strategic nature for the HoD and members of Top and Senior
Management. Draft submissions, letters, internal memorandums etc. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager. Establish and maintain procedures and processes to support the
smooth functioning of the Directorate. Render Support to the Director with
budget management including claims, procurement claims, etc. Remains up to
date with regard to prescripts /policies and procedures applicable to her/his
work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. IE de Vega Tel No: (021) 467-9323
POST 17/447 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 78
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
298
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Qualification; an accredited Secretarial/Office Administration Diploma/
Certificate and a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in rendering
administrative support services to management. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedure; Basic financial
administration. Computer literacy in MS Word, MS PowerPoint and MS Excel,
Knowledge of financial systems e.g., BAS and PERSAL, IMS and J-track, will
be an advantage. Skills: Sound planning and organising skills; Communicate
effectively (written and verbally); Advanced typing.
DUTIES : Plan activities for example: diary management, travel itineraries, document
flow in the office, do basic research. Provide a secretarial/receptionist support
service to the Directorate, which includes procurement, maintain a record
system, manage assets and record minutes of meetings. Render
administrative support services in Directorate. Provide support to manager
regarding meetings including logistical arrangements, keeping track of due
dates. Analyse information and compile complex documents/ submissions
/reports of strategic nature for the HoD and members of Top and Senior
Management. Draft submissions, letters, internal memorandums etc. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager. Establish and maintain procedures and processes to support the
smooth functioning of the Directorate. Render Support to the Director with
budget management including claims, procurement claims, etc. Remains up to
date with regard to prescripts /policies and procedures applicable to her/his
work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 17/448 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CURRICULUM FET REF NO: 90
Directorate: Curriculum FET
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Qualification; an accredited Secretarial/Office Administration Diploma/
Certificate and minimum of 3 years relevant experience in rendering
administrative support services to management. Knowledge: Good
communicator, creative, innovative skills and well-organised. Knowledge on
the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedure; Basic financial
administration, proactive and organized with proven business report writing
and excellent communication skills. Good office and financial administration.
Computer literate and fully aware of good social media etiquette. Knowledge
of financial systems (BAS and PERSAL), IMS and Jtrack will be an advantage.
Skills: Sound planning and organising skills; minute taking; Communicate
effectively (written and verbally); Advanced typing, Ability to deal
enquiries/complaints pertaining with a wide variety of functions/ activities within
the Department.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the HoD, which include
organising and maintaining diaries and making appointments. Rendering
administrative support services in the office of the HoD; producing documents,
briefing papers, reports and presentations. Provide support to HoD and Office
Manager regarding meetings. Analyse information and compile complex
documents/submissions of strategic nature for the MEC, HoD and members of
Top Management, Draft submissions, letters, internal memorandums etc.
Remain abreast with the policies, procedures and processes that apply in the
office. Support the Office Manager with budget management; ensure financial
objectives are met; schedule expenditures; analysing variances; initiating
corrective actions and report back to Office Manager. Assist Office Manager in
mentoring staff/interns in office. Ability to project manage events and plan
ahead; contribute to team effort and success of projects with Office Manager.
Maintain office efficiency by planning and implementing office systems,
layouts, and equipment procurement required by the HoD. Devising and
maintaining effective and efficient office systems, including data management
and filing. Arranging travel, visas and accommodation. Taking minutes of
meetings or provide general assistance during presentations. Screening phone
calls, enquiries and handling all requests. Meeting and greeting visitors at all
levels of seniority. Dealing with incoming email, faxes and post, often
corresponding on behalf of the manager. Organising meetings and ensuring
the manager is well prepared for meetings. Liaising with clients, suppliers and
other staff. Carrying out background research and presenting findings.
299
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Schreuder Tel No: (021) 467 2564
POST 17/449 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CURRICULUM GET REF NO: 92
Directorate: Curriculum General Education Training
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Qualification; an accredited Secretarial/Office Administration Diploma/
Certificate and minimum of 3 years relevant experience in rendering
administrative support services to management. Knowledge: Good
communicator, creative, innovative skills and well-organised. Knowledge on
the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedure; Basic financial
administration, proactive and organized with proven business report writing
and excellent communication skills. Good office and financial administration.
Computer literate and fully aware of good social media etiquette. Knowledge
of financial systems (BAS and PERSAL), IMS and Jtrack will be an advantage.
Skills: Sound planning and organising skills; minute taking; Communicate
effectively (written and verbally); Advanced typing, Ability to deal
enquiries/complaints pertaining with a wide variety of functions/ activities within
the Department.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the HoD, which include
organising and maintaining diaries and making appointments. Rendering
administrative support services in the office of the HoD; producing documents,
briefing papers, reports and presentations. Provide support to HoD and Office
Manager regarding meetings. Analyse information and compile complex
documents/submissions of strategic nature for the MEC, HoD and members of
Top Management, Draft submissions, letters, internal memorandums etc.
Remain abreast with the policies, procedures and processes that apply in the
office. Support the Office Manager with budget management; ensure financial
objectives are met; schedule expenditures; analysing variances; initiating
corrective actions and report back to Office Manager. Assist Office Manager in
mentoring staff/interns in office. Ability to project manage events and plan
ahead; contribute to team effort and success of projects with Office Manager.
Maintain office efficiency by planning and implementing office systems,
layouts, and equipment procurement required by the HoD. Devising and
maintaining effective and efficient office systems, including data management
and filing. Arranging travel, visas and accommodation. Taking minutes of
meetings or provide general assistance during presentations. Screening phone
calls, enquiries and handling all requests. Meeting and greeting visitors at all
levels of seniority. Dealing with incoming email, faxes and post, often
corresponding on behalf of the manager. Organising meetings and ensuring
the manager is well prepared for meetings. Liaising with clients, suppliers and
other staff. Carrying out background research and presenting findings.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. G Schreuder Tel No: (021) 467 2564
POST 17/450 : SCHOOL LIBRARY SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: 182
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant National Diploma or degree in Library and information Science or
related. 1-year relevant librarian experience. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Library and Information Science Matters. Knowledge of National and Provincial
Library Policies and Legislation. Knowledge of procedures and processes.
Knowledge of National and Provincial Education Policies and Legislation.
Knowledge of National Curriculum Statements. Skills: Organising, problem
solving, conflict management customer care and good interpersonal relations.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, SLIMS). Financial administration skills.
Ability to work under pressure. Communication skills in 2 official languages.
Analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Implementation of National and Provincial Libraries Policies. Training and
development of School library coordinator (Teacher, student, parent).
Implementation of DBE/WCED requirements for Special projects (library).
Provide guidance and support to Public and Special Ordinary School with the
development and maintenance of the appropriate School Library Model and
Service (Classroom- / Cluster - /Mobile- /Centralised- Community School
library). Promote and support reading and literacy programmes.
300
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) (021) 938 3133.
POST 17/451 : CALL CENTRE AGENT: SAFE SCHOOLS REF NO: 70
Directorate: Institutional Management & Governance
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Diploma with 3 years appropriate experience. Excellent
communication skills in at least two of the official languages of the Western
Cape (isiXhosa, English, Afrikaans).; Helpdesk / Call / On-line Certificate;
Certificate in Basic Counselling or debriefing. Knowledge: A good
understanding of schools / institutions and the dynamics Skills: Must be able
to work in a team. Must be polite, reliable, self-motivated and have good
interpersonal skills. Good customer service skills. Ability to work under
pressure. Active listener and analytical thinker. Professional telephone
manner. Be computer literate. Ability to stay calm in an emergency and under
pressure. Counselling and debriefing skills. Commitment to ongoing
knowledge and skills development. Knowledge of school dynamics. Good
written communication and documentation skills.
DUTIES : Providing a rational safety risk analysis in school issues/crime. Providing a first
line of support to victims of abuse, violence and crime. Managing different
categories of victims using psychological management plans to prevent post-
traumatic stress disorders. Assessing the situation and identifying, addressing
and facilitating the counselling and referral on concurrent issues, using a multi-
modal approach. Plan crisis interventions for different categories of crime. Act
as referral agency for all calls registered. Provision of rapid response support
with regard to gang presence on school premises, and gang intimidation,
threats, shootings and killings. Provision of immediate support and advice to
schools in instances of vandalism and property damage, physical assault,
stabbing and general fighting/ warfare. Provision of an information service to
learners, educators, parents, support staff, governing bodies, with regard to
issues such as rules, regulations and legislation when it comes to rights,
responsibilities/ obligations. Rendering support and advice, or referring calls
dealing with safety-related phenomena, including HIV/AIDS, substance abuse,
trauma, teenage pregnancies, abortion and general queries. Serving as a crisis
management team when required. Psychoeducation of client and relevant
family members. Collect and analyse data. Utilising the Safety Management
budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. William JS Jantjies Tel No: (021) 467 2611/3
POST 17/452 : ADMIN OFFICER: MARKING SERVICES REF NO: 80
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year degree/diploma with 3 years relevant experience in an
administrative, or educational environment OR a matric qualification with at
least 5 years relevant experience in an administrative, or educational
environment; Valid Driver’s licence. Recommendation: Knowledge of National
Senior Certificate (NSC) and Senior Certificate (SC) examination policies and
processes. To manage and support the administration, appointment and
training of marking officials as well as all other activities related to marking
processes to ensure quality marking within the province. Knowledge:
Knowledge of Project Management. Relevant National and Provincial
legislation and regulations pertaining to Finance. Relevant National and
Provincial legislation pertaining to Conduct, Administration and Management
of Assessment (SC- and NSC). Education Department Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele). Western Cape Education Department Service Delivery
Model. PFMA (1999) as amended. Good written and verbal communication
skills. Numeracy skills. Literacy skills. Team building. Motivational. Planning
and organizing. People management skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft Office
and Excel). Project Management. Personal Attributes: Confidentiality. Able to
work under pressure. The ability to handle conflict. The ability to lead and direct
teams Innovative. Problem solving. Willing to work longer hours, often beyond
the call of duty. Willing and able to drive a government vehicle when necessary.
DUTIES : To manage and support the marking processes and appointment of marking
officials in the Western Cape Education Department (WCED). Appointment of
301
markers, marking officials and mark-checkers. Administer the competency test
processes. Administer and support the pre-marking, remarking/rechecking/
viewing processes. Administer and support the marking standardisation
meeting processes. Administer and support the establishment of marking
centres and marking centre logistics. Render a supervisory function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F Salie Tel No: (021) 467 2572
POST 17/453 : ADMIN OFFICER: SYSTEMS LIBRARIAN REF NO: 86
Directorate: Cape Teaching & Leadership Institute
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Kuilsriver
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification in Library and Information Science or
Information Systems with at least 2 years relevant library experience or
information systems experience. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Library
and/or Information systems; Computer (hardware and software) and networks;
Advanced Online services: MS Office packages; Library and/or Information
procedures; Library organization; Internet searches and information retrieval.
Skills: Supervisory skills; Problem solving; Ability to prioritise and organise;
Ability to trouble shoot; Analytical thinking; Sound judgement; Good
communication; Ability to communicate in at least 2 of the official languages of
the Western Cape; Very high degree of computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assist the Systems Administrator with the SLIMS Helpdesk by investigating
and resolving logged issues; by participating in the SLIMS user workshops; by
testing the functionality of the library system; by managing the library barcoding
system Assist with the asset management of library material by verifying the
data on the asset register; by completing library material stock takes at all
library sites Provide training to SLIMS sites Assist EDULIS personnel by
providing basic first line support for software, hardware and network problems;
by keeping a database of all computer equipment Assist with special projects,
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Cloete Tel No: (021) 957- 9626
POST 17/454 : ADMIN OFFICER: ICT CO-ORDINATOR: GOVERNANCE REF NO: 87
Directorate: Cape Teaching & Leadership Institute
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : Three years post school qualification. Recommendation: IT related
qualification. Driver’s license Code B. No experience required. Relevant
experience in ICT environment will be advantageous. Knowledge: Knowledge
of relevant legislation/polices/prescripts and procedures. Basic financial
administration. Proven IT knowledge and competence. Knowledge of
information management systems. Basic knowledge of Learning Management
System. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Typing. Computer Literacy. Language
skills. Project Management Other: Analytical skills. Technical skills. Written and
verbal competence in two of the three official languages of the Western Cape.
Interpersonal skills to work with internal and external clients. Ability to work
independently and accurately. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Render general administrative support services. Ensure and advise on the
effective flow of information and documents to and from the component.
Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the in line with relevant
legislation and policies. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports, e.g. a.
Progress reports. Monthly reports. Management reports. Scrutinise routine
submissions/ reports and make abbreviated notes and/or recommendations for
the manager. Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Draft documents as required. Collect, analyse and collate
information requested by Manager. Ensure that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Provide support with regards to procurement and financial
processes to the component. Render advice and liaise with regards to
administrative matters. Remain abreast on WCED administrative policies, as
well as procedures and processes that apply to the component. Study the
relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents in order to ensure that the application thereof is understood
properly. Remain abreast with compilation of reports and submissions on
request. Provide line administrative support with regards to systems and
databases. Coordinate information management systems services. Participate
302
in collaboration with CEI to develop and maintain an on-line integrated
professional development system. Generate trend analysis reports. Support
day-to-day running of the system. Maintain and support Learning Management
system (LMS) and CTLI website. Provide technical support and maintenance
for the LMS in collaboration with CEI. Install, configure, and publish LMS
system. Monitor system health and resolve underlying issues. Assist and liaise
w.r.t. Server configuration including setting up and maintaining. Participate in
developing and maintaining standard operating procedures and work
instructions. Liaise with stakeholders regarding system upgrades. Provide
support with plug-ins. Perform course backups and restorations. Provide
course administration support on the LMS. Create and control user profiles.
Control roles and permissions. Theme customisation. Course uploads. Setup
configure Course completion Criteria, Badges, Certificates. Provide relevant
reports to management and training coordinators. Implement/develop reporting
solutions. Provide server information analysis and reporting metrics. Provide
informal systems training and support to users. Support advocacy and
communication of CTLI services. General social media initiatives. Stakeholder
management. Day-to-day running of marketing and social media platforms,
including CTLI website. Coordinate the maintenance of the ICT infrastructure
at the CTLI. Liaise with CEI and other stakeholders regarding IT related matters
in terms of the following: Trouble shoot, diagnose, and resolve hardware,
software, and network problems. o Keep a faults and repairs log. Hardware
and software installations and upgrades. Source and procure up-to-date ICT
equipment and solutions. Draw up technical specifications. Complete
ITOPSCOM applications. Arrange site meetings for procurement. Assist with
contract management. Coordinate the deployment of ICT, sound and audio-
visual equipment for training interventions and office administration functions.
o Monitor control mechanisms for the movement of ICT equipment. Coordinate
the set-up and uninstallation of ICT equipment as required for all interventions
and meetings at the CTLI. Coordinate the provision of sound and projection
support for interventions. Coordinate the distribution of refreshed technology.
Coordinate the disposal of IT equipment. Coordinate the provision of ICT
technical support for training interventions and administration functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 900 5026
POST 17/455 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: E-LEARNING ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
OFFICER REF NO: 94
Directorate: E-Learning
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : 1 year post matric qualification. At least 2 years relevant administrative
experience. Proficiency at least in two of the three official languages [English,
Afrikaans, isiXhosa]. Recommendations: Valid driver’s license. Experience in
web development, instructional design, administration of online platforms or
digital environments will be an advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of
procurement processes, requisition processes. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Acts (PFMA, SITA). Knowledge of eLearning Vision, White paper
7 Skills: Computer literacy specifically in Web development, Online and Digital
platforms. Communication specifically in Social Media with excellent Oral
Skills. Analytically and systems thinking ability. Be able to work as part of a
team. Report writing. Sound administration. Good organisational skills.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support eLearning project office: Assist management
support staff in all administrative duties. Liaise with the different units at head
office and districts with respect to administrative aspects related to e-Learning.
Develop and maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards
improving efficiency in the office. Work within the established systems to
perform all core functions effectively, efficiently and timeously. Obtain inputs,
collate and ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources
related to all the eLearning projects. Assist with all aspects of administration of
projects, e.g. database of training, digital resources, R&D reports. Keep a
meaningful correspondence and filing system for easy access. Assist with any
other tasks that contributes to the functions of eLearning Directorate as
delegated by the Director and CES/Deputy Director. Administer and keep
records of office assets, S&T claims and travel, incl. Government transport
(GG) applications. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when
required. Prepare brief notes for meetings as required. Draft Project-related
303
documents as required. General administrative duties (e.g., data capturing,
opening files, keeping records, taking minutes of meetings, uploading
information on various online systems.). Provide support to eLearning
portfolios: Enabling Environment: Assist with all processes for the preparation
of documentation for procurement of ICT equipment, hardware and
infrastructure rollout; assist with project rollout progress; follow through on
queries; assist with data capturing; other general administration tasks; assist
with the communication to districts and service providers. Capacity Building
Environment: Assist with training claims, queries, setup and preparation for
online training; communication on training schedules, registers; Administrative
support to DCES in charge of social media platforms; Conference logistical;
booking of conferences; assist with the writing of submissions; checking and
verifying of contract management processes and portfolio of evidence; Digital
Online Resources and platforms: Provide administrative assistance for the
digitization of content, uploading to online platforms, first-line support to
officials and users on various online systems, responding to questions; creating
of accounts and reset of passwords. Apply relevant knowledge/skill to Web
presence, development and growth of online platforms and digital environment
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders. Reporting and Administration:
Regularly inform CES, Deputy Director, DCES and Assistant Directors of any
problems related to the core functions. Report on risks, trends and general
Frequently Ask Questions (FAQ). Obtains, inputs, collates and compile reports,
e.g. progress reports, monthly reports as required. Assist with any other tasks
that contributes to the functions of the E-Learning directorate as delegated by
the CES, Deputy Director and Director. Administrative support to various
contracts with Service Providers (e.g. Maths Curriculum Online, e-Portal, LAN).
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Walker Tel No: (021) 467 2351
POST 17/456 : ADMIN OFFICER: PROVINCIAL PRINTING REF NO: 103 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Exams And Printing Administration
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/diploma with 3 years relevant experience in an
examination and or educational environment OR a matric qualification with at
least 6 years relevant experience in an examination and or educational
environment; and proven computer literacy. Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge:
Knowledge: Project Planning Relevant National and Provincial legislation and
regulations pertaining to Finance Relevant National and Provincial legislation
and regulations pertaining to Human Resource Management SA Schools Act
(as revised) General and Further Education and Training Quality Assurance
Act (as revised) Relevant National and Provincial legislation pertaining to
Conduct, Administration and Management of Assessment (SC-Report 550 /
NSC / ABET) Education Department Service Delivery Charter (Batho Pele)
Western Cape Education Department Service Delivery Model PFMA (1999) as
amended New developmental trends in the printing industry. Skills: Written and
verbal communication (at least 2 official language of the province) Numeracy
skills Literacy skills Team building Motivational Planning and organizing People
management skills Computer literacy (Microsoft Office) Writing Skills Project
Management Driver’s License minimum requirement B.
DUTIES : Administer the Quality Assurance and Printing Process for examination
materials Administer all other printing processes training and curriculum
materials. Oversee the sealing process for question papers and other printing.
Administer the stocktaking and storeroom for the printing consumables.
Administer the process for repairs and maintenance of reprographic
equipment. Oversee that Security requirements are in place in the Printing
Room. Oversee software related matters for the printing equipment.
Supervisor, plan and organise the work of print operators. Prepare the printing
plans for examination and curriculum material. Record and report on quality
assurance and printing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Bredenkamp Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 17/457 : ADMIN OFFICER: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT FUNDING REF
NO: 121 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
304
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1- year relevant experience. Knowledge: PFMA,
No 1 of 19999. Treasury Prescripts. Financial Delegations. NPO Act Policy on
Financial Awards. Guidelines for the Implementation of the Policy on Financial
Awards. Skills: Ability to motivate own ideas and approaches. Ability to break
down problems into manageable parts and identify solutions. Ability to listen
well and be receptive to the ideas of others. Ability to manage conflict. Ability
to communicate (verbally or in writing) with ease and confidence. Ability to
speak in public and make presentation to large or small groups. Ability to use
desktop communication and information technology resources including MS
Office software. Planning and organising. Problem solving. Training.
Supervision/Management of staff. Interpersonal relations. Budgeting.
DUTIES : Verification of prescribed documents for payment: Verify and monitor
compliance (TPA and business plan) and identify non-compliance with
prescribed policy/ legislation and funding conditions. Render a support function
to Programme Offices. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/458 : ADMIN OFFICER: MONITORING REF NO: 123
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant National Diploma/NQF level 5/ B Degree/NQF Level 6 (1-2 years
post-school qualification and 3-5 years relevant experience. Competency in at
least two official languages. Knowledge: Knowledge of M&E systems.
Knowledge of applicable legislation. Knowledge of norms and standards.
Information management. Public administration. Extensive knowledge of
applicable policies and procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of
people management processes. Skills: Interpret and apply relevant policies
and procedures. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of monitoring and review systems. Assist with the
evaluation of the current systems and recommend improvements. Support the
development of monitoring tools and systems. Implement motoring tools and
systems. Conduct Financial and Governance assessments for existing and
new ECD Facilities Arrange and conduct site visits. Compile monitoring
reports. Monitor and review services rendered by the NPO /ECD Programmes
in line with the Provincial /National policy frameworks. Analyse progress report,
administer quarterly and annual compliance assessments including site visits.
Write reports with recommendations and corrective plans. Administration of the
Non-Financial Data (NFD) process: Check the correctness of reporting
templates. Review supporting documents, previous Monitoring and Evaluation
reports. Report on any outstanding documents. Populate the payment
activation grid and send to manager. Perform Quality Assurance Monitoring,
Rapid Response, Non-Financial data Monitoring. Norms and Standards
checking at facilities. Capacitate, support and develop ECD facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/459 : ADMIN OFFICER: HEAD CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 136
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma (1 -2 years post matric qualification) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages & sound application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge
on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial
administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and letters, etc.
Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for example
workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions at meetings.
Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate effectively
(written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services: Management support staff in all
administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that will
305
contribute towards improving efficiency in the component. Oversee and provide
effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and documents, to and
from the Curriculum Support Component Prepare documentation and verify
responses information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
Component Curriculum Support and advise/ sensitise the office, e.g.: (i)
Progress reports(ii) Monthly reports (iii) Management reports. Assist with
monitoring and evaluating the Performance of the Curriculum Support
Component on an ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure
that effective records are kept of the activities and resources of the Curriculum
Support Component. Assist with the planning of workshops, large meetings,
conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
curriculum data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch,
SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate M&E activities and maintain the relevant
systems. Update and maintain the information systems for curriculum projects.
(e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on validity and relevance
of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues referred to and from
the Curriculum Support Component through Issue Management System (IMS).
Coordinate projects development queries -related parliamentary/ ministerial
enquiries referred to the Curriculum Support Component. Analyse reports and
make notes and/or recommendations with regard to projects implemented by
the Curriculum Support Component. Assist the Head Curriculum Support in the
analysis of business reports. Draft progress reports on all plans. Keep detail
records of teacher and school performance. Provide support to the Unit for
supply chain management. Coordinate evidence/ supporting documents for the
Curriculum Support. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Screen
documents to determine actions/information/documents required for meetings.
Collect and compile information on project with regard to issues that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: (i) Arrange for the
placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the
Head Curriculum Support, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Manage the procurement of standard items: like stationary,
refreshments etc. for the Curriculum Support Component. In terms of the
project-related activities, obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g.
procurement advices and attendance records. Keep record of all procurement
activities. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative matters. Keep updated
on WCED school online systems including, but not limited to, LTSM online
system, SAMI, CEMIS and Eduinfosearch. Studies the relevant Public Services
and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with project
procedures and processes that apply to the Curriculum Support Component.
Compile reports and submissions on request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/460 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ASSESSEMENT AND EXAMINATIONS REF
NO: 140
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year diploma or NQF level N6 qualification. Proficiency in at least in two
of the three official languages of the Western Cape Province. Knowledge:
Experience in an administrative or academic support role. Familiarity with
learner information and examination management systems. Basic
understanding of National and Provincial assessment timetables. Skills:
Excellent verbal and written communication (to liaise with principals, teachers,
and members of the public). Strong numerical aptitude for verifying candidate
lists, timetables, and mark schedules. High level of accuracy and attention to
detail in data capture and document control Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook) and electronic database systems. Reliable
organizational and time management skills to meet strict examination
deadlines. Discretion and integrity in handling confidential learner and
examination materials. Customer service orientation, with ability to respond
professionally to queries. Able to work in a challenging environment.
DUTIES : Examination Administration: Assist with organizing and scheduling internal
district examinations in line with academic calendar of WCED and district.
306
Liaise and assist Assessment Coordinator, Phase Coordinators and schools to
ensure smooth delivery of all internal SBA and external examination. Assist
with the preparation and distribution of exam timetables, room bookings,
seating plans, and materials. Assessment Administration: Ensure timely
collation, processing, and recording of learner assessments, and final exam
results. Support the operation of assessment committees (SAIC & DAIC),
including preparation of documentation and minutes. Assist with verification of
accurate teacher and learner records in examination and assessment systems.
Ensures that all national and provincial policies and procedures are
communicated with all schools. Prepare reports, statistical data, and analysis
for internal use and external audits/ accreditation bodies. Serve as a point of
contact for assessment-related queries from public. Assist with assessment
accommodations and concessions. Use and navigate student record systems
(E.g. EIS). Ensure secure handling of confidential materials and data protection
compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/461 : ADMIN OFFICER: MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF NO: 187
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : years post matric qualification plus 3 years relevant clerical/administrative
experience. Additional Requirements: Ability to be creative Flexibility Using
your own trusted discretion when necessary Ability to consult Accountability.
Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national education strategies.
Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &; sound application of
relevant computer programmes. Knowledge on the relevant legislation/
policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration Skills: Draft
documentation like submissions, letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and
time management skills (for example workshops, conferences, events). Diary
management, travel itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record
minutes and decisions at meetings. Run and maintain a record management
system. Communicate effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and
services Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Do basic research
(information gathering). Analyse documents and situations. Ability to access
research sources (Information platforms). Function as a team member.
DUTIES : Management support staff in all administrative duties. component. and
Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information
and documents, to from the Management and Governance Component.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools, and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate
and compile reports pertaining to the Management and Governance
Component and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist with monitoring and
evaluating the performance of the Management and Governance Component
on an ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective
records are kept of the activities and resources of the Management and
Governance Component. Assist with the planning of workshops, large
meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
management and governance data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Coordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the supply
chain management. Provide support to the supply chain management. Render
advice and liaise w.r.t administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/462 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 112
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma or Degree in Human Resources plus 3 years
relevant experience in Human Resources or Senior Certificate with a minimum
of at least 6 years relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge Relevant
Education and Public Service Acts, Regulations; Policy documents; Public
Finance Management Act; Education Law and Policy; Disciplinary Codes and
307
Procedures; CORE & Compensation Management, Collective Agreements,
SPMDS and PERSAL. Skills: Interpersonal, Problem Solving and Organising
skills; Decision Making and Conflict Resolution skills; Written and Oral
Communication skills; Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software:
MS Office Package (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint); MS Outlook and PERSAL.
Communication skills in at least two official languages of the Western Cape
Province.
DUTIES : General administrative duties with regard to service benefits and conditions of
service. Implementation of applicable policies. Salary administration. Leave
administration. Exit management service. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 17/463 : ADMIN OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 73
Directorate: Business Strategy & Stakeholder Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/ B degree or higher
qualification. A minimum of 1year relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge
of general office administration. ability to use IT software package, with the
ability to use MS package, PowerPoint, and MS Excel on an intermediate/
advance level. Knowledge of conducting basic research and data analysis.
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Monitoring and Evaluation
Systems. Framework for Managing Performance Information, Departmental
Strategic and Annual Plans, Financial Management Systems (FMS); Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA). Policy Framework for the Government-
wide Monitoring and Evaluation System) Information management; Public
administration; knowledge of and experience in database management Skills:
Decision making; problem solving. Planning and Organising. Written and
verbal communication skills. Report writing. Analytical problem solving.
Research skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective office administration and management support services to the
component. Provide support to management in all administrative duties.
Develop and maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards
improving efficiency in the component. Provide effective guidance and advice
on the flow of information and documents, to and from the directorate. Ensure
that effective records are kept of the activities and resources of the directorate.
Assist with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and
when they occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information
from relevant stakeholders. Track completion of activities and deliverables of
department. Maintain a filing systems and electronic record keeping. Perform
ad-hoc functions to support directorate. assist with the development of
monitoring and review systems, assist with the governance assessments of
performance information; Monitor and review services rendered by the
directorate in line with the Provincial/ National policy frameworks.
Administration of the non-financial data (NFD) process and compile reports.
HR administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. IE de Vega Tel No: (021) 467-9323
POST 17/464 : ADMIN OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: CIRCUIT 6 REF NO: 139
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. To administer the office of the Circuit
Manager and provide support to the circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of
provincial and national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant
software packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes.
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and
letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for
example workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
308
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/465 : ADMIN OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: CIRCUIT 4 REF NO: 150
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes.
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and
letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for
example workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
POST 17/466 : ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: CIRCUIT 8 REF NO: 173
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes.
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and
letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for
example workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel
309
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700(Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/467 : ADMIN OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: DISTRICT CIRCUITS REF
NO: 198
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages & sound application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge
on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial
administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and letters, etc.
Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for example
workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions at meetings.
Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate effectively
(written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/468 : ADMIN OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: CIRCUIT 6 REF NO: 203
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes.
310
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and
letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for
example workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/469 : ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF
NO: 210
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification plus 3 years relevant clerical/administrative
experience. Additional Requirements: Ability to be creative Flexibility Using
your own trusted discretion when necessary Ability to consult Accountability.
Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national education strategies.
Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &; sound application of
relevant computer programmes. Knowledge on the relevant legislation/
policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration Skills: Draft
documentation like submissions, letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and
time management skills (for example workshops, conferences, events). Diary
management, travel itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record
minutes and decisions at meetings. Run and maintain a record management
system. Communicate effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and
services Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Do basic research
(information gathering). Analyse documents and situations. Ability to access
research sources (Information platforms). Function as a team member.
DUTIES : Management support staff in all administrative duties. component. and
Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information
and documents, to from the Management and Governance Component.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools, and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate
and compile reports pertaining to the Management and Governance
Component and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist with monitoring and
evaluating the performance of the Management and Governance Component
on an ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective
records are kept of the activities and resources of the Management and
Governance Component. Assist with the planning of workshops, large
meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
management and governance data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Coordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the supply
chain management. Provide support to the supply chain management. Render
advice and liaise w.r.t administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
311
POST 17/470 : ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 214
District Office: Education District Office Overberg
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant
clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and
national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes.
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and
letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management skills (for
example workshops, conferences and events). Diary management, travel
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and services.
DUTIES : Assist management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and
maintain processes and systems that will contribute towards improving
efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and provide effective guidance and
advice on the flow of information and documents, to and from the circuit.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and
compile reports pertaining to the circuit and advise/ sensitise the office. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the circuit office on an
ongoing basis against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records
are kept of the activities and resources of the circuit. Assist with the planning
and execution of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they
occur. Follow up with outstanding documentation/data/information from
schools. Collate circuit data available on WCED systems such as CEMIS,
Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate Monitoring & Evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the circuit for
supply chain management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7300 (Overberg EDO)
POST 17/471 : ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 215
District Office: Education District Office Overberg
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : 1 year post matric qualification plus 3 years relevant clerical/administrative
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national education
strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages & sound
application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge on the relevant
legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration.
Skills: Draft documentation like submissions, letters, etc. Sound organising,
planning and time management skills (for example workshops, conferences,
events). Diary management, travel itineraries, document flow in the office.
Properly record minutes and decisions at meetings. Run and maintain a record
management system. Communicate effectively (written and verbally). Procure
goods and services. Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Do basic
research (information gathering). Analyse documents and situations. Ability to
access research sources (Information platforms). Function as a team member.
DUTIES : Management support staff in all administrative duties. Develop and maintain
processes and systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency in the
component. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of
information and documents, to and from the Curriculum Support Component.
Prepare documentation and verify responses information received from
schools, and other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate
and compile reports pertaining to the Component Curriculum Support and
advise/ sensitise the office. Assist with monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the Curriculum Support Component on an ongoing basis
against predetermined objectives. Ensure that effective records are kept of the
activities and resources of the Curriculum Support Component. Assist with the
planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they occur.
Follow up with outstanding documentation / data /information from relevant
stakeholders. Collate curriculum data available on WCED systems such as
312
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate M&E activities and
maintain the relevant systems. Provide support to the supply chain
management. Render advice and liaise w.r.t administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7300 (Overberg EDO).
POST 17/472 : ADMIN SUPPORT OFFICER: LEARNER SUPPORT REF NO: 227
district office: education district office west coast
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : 2 years post matric qualification (NQF 5) plus 3 years relevant clerical/
administrative experience. Knowledge: Duties continued: Render advise and
liaise w.r.t administrative matters, Keep an update on WCED school online
systems including, SAMI, CEMIS, DMIS and Eduinfosearch (including
Databases and Registers within the Learner Support Component), Maintain a
database and track the distribution of LTSM, learning support, therapy
sections, Abuse No More Docs etc. Facilitate and manage all databases
pertaining to Assessments and Accommodations. Special school applications,
data management, tracking applications, Concessions / Adaptations, SLES
Referral pathway / SIAS, Database of special school referrals. Manager
Register for Abuse no More. Manage registers / database re Suspensions and
Expulsions / Form 22 / Abuse No More Register. EduInfo Search capturing,
gathering statistics, drawing up reports as required. Status / Tracking of various
types of applications. Collate learner support data available on WCED
systems. Track learner disability of EduInfoSearch, assist with verification of
learner disabilities for AG purposes. Report on outstanding learner verifications
for LSEN in the mainstream as provided by learning support educators. Study
the relevant Public Services and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remain abreast with project procedures and processes that apply to the
Learner Support Component. Compile reports and submissions. Skills:
Knowledge of provincial and national education strategies. Advanced
knowledge of relevant software packages & sound application of relevant
computer programmes. Knowledge on the relevant legislation/ policies/
prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration. Draft documentation
like submissions, letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time
management skills (for example workshops, conferences, events). Diary
management, travel itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record
minutes and decisions at meetings. Run and maintain a record management
system. Communicate effectively (written and verbally). Procure goods and
services. Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Do basic research
(information gathering). Analyse documents and situations. Ability to access
research sources (Information platforms). Function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support: Management of support staff in all
administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that will
contribute towards improving efficiency in the component. Oversee and provide
effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and documents, to and
from the Learner Support Component. Answering and responding / redirecting
telephonic enquiries. Dealing with telephone and walk in queries. Directing
queries / referrals from the DoH / DSD etc. to the appropriate DBST (Circuit)
Learner Support staff. Liaise with the admin officers of each circuit re
placement / queries etc. Follow up with Special Schools regarding placement
Follow up with Head Office/especially when docs go missing. Prepare
documentation and verify responses information received from schools, and
other internal and external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile
letters / reports pertaining to the Learner Support Component and advise/
sensitise the office. e.g.: Progress reports (ii) Monthly reports Management
reports. Assist with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Learner
Support Component on an ongoing basis against predetermined objectives.
Ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources of the
Learner Support Component. Monitoring of SLES staff leave forms (ii) Ensuring
daily registers are in place. Deal with all Learner Support employees enquiries
re salary issues. Assist with the planning of workshops, large meetings,
conferences as and when they occur. Sifting meeting prep./ admin (ii) Assist
with Learner Support Components interviews. v) Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data/information from relevant stakeholders e.g. Social
Development, Children’s Court referrals, Child Welfare etc. Track issues
313
referred to and from Learner Support Component through Issue Management
System (IMS). Collate Learner Support data available on WCED systems such
as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate M&E activities and
maintain relevant systems. Update and maintain the information systems for
Learner Support Component projects. (e.g. APP Projects). Compile
memoranda and reports on validity and relevance of data received from project
stakeholders. Remain abreast with project procedures and process that apply
to the Learner Support Component, Positive Behaviour, Learner Support
Budgets Coordinate projects development queries (labour enquiries) -related
parliamentary/ ministerial enquiries referred to the Learner Support
Component. Analyse reports and make notes and/or recommendations with
regard to projects implemented by the Learner Support Component. Assist the
Head Learner Support in the analysis of business reports. Draft progress
reports on all plans. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Screen
documents to determine actions/information/documents required for meetings,
Collect and compile information on project with regard to issues that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the
Head Learner Support, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Provide Support to the Unit for Supply Chain Management.
Manage the procurement of standard items: Handle all memorandums of
agreement, venues, signatures, finances, financial planning and monitoring for
WSP / positive behaviour. Assist with stationary for Learner Support staff, in
terms of the project-related activities, obtain the necessary signatures on
documents e.g. procurement advices and attendance records. Prepare and
process contract applications for Learner Support Component and follow up
with HO, Budget / requisition paperwork e.g. WSP/ Positive Behaviour,
Management of preparation of documentation for claims / payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/473 : ADMIN OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 166
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : 3 years post matric qualification plus 1-year relevant clerical/administrative
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national education
strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages & sound
application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge on the relevant
legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration.
Skills: Draft documentation like submissions and letters, etc. Sound organising,
planning and time management skills (for example workshops, conferences
and events). Diary management, travel itineraries, document flow in the office.
Properly record minutes and decisions at meetings. Run and maintain a record
management system. Communicate effectively (written and verbally). Procure
goods and services.
DUTIES : Implement and administer the Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) at District Level.
Assist with the process to obtain and collate training needs. Provide support to
the DCES People Management in drafting of the workplace skills plan in
conjunction with the District Skills Development Committee. Assist with the
implementation of the Workplace Skills Plans. Ensure that administration
pertaining to training interventions is up-to-date, accurate and thorough. Assist
the DCES People Management with the compilation of training reports,
ensuring that all reports are aligned with SETA requirements. Administer the
training and professional development plan at District Level: Administer the
process regarding the identification and nomination of candidates / participants
for in service training courses. Administer the identification and nomination of
teachers, for the Teacher Qualification Improvement Programmes. Administer
the roll-out of the District Professional Development Plan and monitor against
the approved budget. Administer the implementation of SACE CPTD-MS
(Continuing Professional Teacher Development Management System). Assist
in the administration and monitoring of the professional participation at school
level in line with PGP's (Professional Growth Plans) and School Improvement
Plans and WCED Professional Development Priorities. Administer and ensure
that all data pertaining to the professional Development Points of all teachers
are captured accurately and the information recorded is relevant, per district
intervention. Compile submission of district interventions for CPTD MS from
314
District Components for SACE endorsements. Provide administrative support
to teachers or refer them to the relevant support systems of their participation
in the CPTD Management system and Professional Development uptake.
Administer and monitor the National Teaching Awards process at District level.
Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports for WCED/CTLI (e.g. training
interventions relating to the District Professional Development Plan). Assist
with the monitoring and administration of the Staff Performance Management
System(s) at District (including schools) Level: Assist in the administration and
dissemination of performance management training information within the
district and schools. Schedule and plan performance management events and
activities, aligning the performance management plan and timetables with that
of the Head Offices performance management structure and assist in the
collation/compilation of regular progress reports. Assist with administrative and
operational support for the alignment of individual and district performance
plans. Assist with the communication and dissemination of information on
performance management framework and assist with the gathering of
information regarding performance management implementation trends within
the district and report to supervisor. Administer and file personal development
plans of district employees, skills development programmes and performance
related management processes and assist in the identification of gaps and
overlaps. Develop, implement and comply with new and amended
departmental policies and procedures at district and school level. File all
documents relating to the SPMS (IPDP, quarterly review forms, appraisal
certificates, circulars, etc.) Render support and advice to district management
regarding Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Mediation of new policies,
procedures and guidelines and to provide support to all staff on the
interpretation of the EAP policy of the Department (through workshops,
information sessions. etc.). Assist with provision of information on appropriate
health, welfare and psychosocial facilities, support / counselling services at the
workplace, or within the community to employees. To draft letters, progress
/status reports as required in terms of prescripts / policies. Supervisory
functions attached to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/474 : INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER: PLANNING REF NO: 167
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year post matric qualification plus 1-2 years relevant experience and Valid
Driver’s Licence B. Knowledge: Knowledge of an ICT Strategy and operational
plan; Knowledge of Education Information Systems (DMIS/CEMIS/ PMPS,
EduInfoSearch, SAMI, IMS); Processes and procedures of CITCOM and
DITCOM; Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures; Knowledge of
Education policies and guidelines regarding ICT; Knowledge of Data and
Information Management. Skills: Written and verbal communication in 2 official
languages of the Western Cape; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Presenting
and facilitation; Report writing.
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide access to users within the district and schools. Provide
support and assistance with the development and enhancement of electronic
business solutions to enable effective information, knowledge management
and business intelligence within the WCED. Assist with continuous integration,
development and enhancements to information systems. Facilitate the
provisioning of infrastructure (hardware, software and connectivity) to enable
utilisation of the Education Knowledge and Information Management Systems
for the District. Maintain EMIS and provide data analysis service within the
Education District. Facilitate Knowledge and Information Management systems
user training and support in collaboration with the Directorate Knowledge and
Information Management. Render support in terms of the internal publication
and dissemination of institutional knowledge and information generated within
education information systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/475 : INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER REF NO: 188
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
315
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant National Diploma (NQFL 6) or degree plus minimum 1-year relevant
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of an ICT Strategy and operational plan;
Knowledge of Education Information Systems (DMIS/CEMIS/ PMPS,
EduInfoSearch, SAMI, IMS); Processes and procedures of CITCOM and
DITCOM; Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures; Knowledge of
Education policies and guidelines regarding ICT; Knowledge of Data and
Information Management. Skills: Written and verbal communication in 2 official
languages of the Western Cape; Interpersonal; Problem solving; Presenting
and facilitation; Report writing.
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide access to users within the district and schools. Provide
support and assistance with the development and enhancement of electronic
business solutions to enable effective information, knowledge management
and business intelligence within the WCED. Assist with continuous integration,
development and enhancements to information systems. Facilitate the
provisioning of infrastructure (hardware, software and connectivity) to enable
utilisation of the Education Knowledge and Information Management Systems
for the District. Maintain EMIS and provide data analysis service within the
Education District. Facilitate Knowledge and Information Management systems
user training and support in collaboration with the Directorate Knowledge and
Information Management. Render support in terms of the internal publication
and dissemination of institutional knowledge and information generated within
education information systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/476 : WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: 76
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Building or Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed
Trade Test or National Diploma in Engineering. Additional Requirements: One
years’ relevant experience post-qualification. Valid Driver’s license. Computer
literate. Skills: Project management skills, organising, research and report
writing, monitoring of projects, time management.
DUTIES : Prepare specifications for all types of maintenance-related work. Contribute to
the development of Bills of Quantities for maintenance related work where
required. Drafting of Reports and or proposals, including associated costs
where required. Conducting inspections on all types of Education Infrastructure
construction projects, monitoring progress & quality of work. Conducting
Condition Assessments on school infrastructure. Assist schools with the
development- & management of Maintenance Plans for school facilities. Assist
in completing NEIMS (National Education Infrastructure Management System)
assessments for existing Education Infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 17/477 : WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: 79
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Building or Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed
Trade Test or National Diploma in Engineering. Additional Requirements: One
years’ relevant experience post-qualification. Valid Driver’s license. Computer
literate. Skills: Project management skills, organising, research and report
writing, monitoring of projects, time management.
DUTIES : Prepare specifications for all types of maintenance-related work. Contribute to
the development of Bills of Quantities for maintenance related work where
required. Drafting of Reports and or proposals, including associated costs
where required. Conducting inspections on all types of Education Infrastructure
construction projects, monitoring progress & quality of work. Conducting
Condition Assessments on school infrastructure. Assist schools with the
development- & management of Maintenance Plans for school facilities. Assist
in completing NEIMS (National Education Infrastructure Management System)
assessments for existing Education Infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
316
POST 17/478 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 191
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. To render financial support
services within the Education District. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and
collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service
financial legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA,
PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Basic knowledge of financial operating
systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc.) Skills: Computer skills. Planning and
organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication skills. Basic
Numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate office
equipment.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting Transactions Receive payment advices. Check
payment advices for correctness, verification and approval. Process payment
advices (e.g. capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of petty
cash. Perform Payslip Administration. Receive and distribute payslips and
IRP5s. Obtain signatures. File all documents. Perform Bookkeeping support
service. Capture all financial transactions (including registration of suppliers).
Record debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions.
Compile journals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/479 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 232 (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with Mathematics and Accounting as a passed subject.
Knowledge: Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel); Numeracy; Good
Accounting and analytical skills; Good Communication skills (verbal and
written) in at least two of the three official languages of the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Verify or capturing of payments on the financial system (BAS, LOGIS and
PERSAL). Compiling (BAS) payments from applications and claims to
electronic spreadsheet. Handling of queries, telephonically and in writing
(incoming and outgoing). Management of ledger accounts. Requesting and
downloading of financial (BAS) reports. Preparing and capturing of General
journals. Safe keeping of files Maintain database and documents. Perform a
cashier function. Follow up and collection of outstanding state debts. Preparing
of referral cases to the Debt Collector/State Attorney. Preparing write-off of
irrecoverable debts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Adendorff Tel No: (021) 467 2506
POST 17/480 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: CONTROL PAY SHEET (VARIOUS POSTS) REF
NO: 233
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Accounting or Mathematics as a passed subject. Additional
Requirements: Willingness to work overtime. A three-year National Diploma in
Financial accounting/Finance/Commerce. Knowledge: Good knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury Instructions. Knowledge of financial accounting processes. Be a team
player as well as work independently, good accounting and analytical skills.
Good numerical skills. Intermediate computer literacy in Microsoft Office
applications (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal
communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Good interpersonal skills. Basic problem-solving skills.
Illustrate a positive attitude.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient payroll administration, follow up on outstanding
electronic verification on People Management Practices System (PMPS).
Dispatch of reports and electronic pay slips for various regions and pay points.
Accurate and timeous dispatching of eIRP5, Safekeeping of payroll
317
documents, distribution, and disposal of payroll records. handling of all pay
slips enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Dlamini Tel No: (021) 467 2739
POST 17/481 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EXAMINATION ADMINISTRATIONS REF NO:
82 (X10 POSTS)
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent, with 1-year relevant experience in
examination administration Recommendation: Valid EB drivers’ licence. Job
Summary: To provide an administrative support service in respect of all
functions for the Printing, Packing, Distribution and Script Management for the
NSC and SC examinations. Knowledge: National Education Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele) Good numerical and accuracy skills To operate
photocopy machines and scanners. Skills: Good communication skills in at
least two official languages of the Western Cape Province. Good verbal and
written communication skills Computer literacy (Outlook, Ms Word, MS Excel)
Interpersonal Relations.
DUTIES : Support all administrative aspects regarding processing, printing, packing and
distribution of question papers for SC and NSC examinations. Support all
processes with courier service for delivery of question papers, answer books
and stationery to examination centres for SC and NSC examinations. Support
the printing, packing and distribution of question papers, answer books and
stationery to all national examinations. Provide clerical support for the
preparation of marksheets and answer scripts for the marking process. Support
the preparation for the audit of examination centres to ensure that all storage
points at examination centres and Head Office meet the prescribed
examination security standards. Assist with the training of all schools regarding
the security solution for distribution of question papers. Data capturing for
registration and resulting. Stock taking and procurement of stock. Support the
registration process for repeat and part time learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Bredenkamp Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 17/482 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MARKING SERVICES REF NO: 83
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent, with 1-year relevant experience in
examination administration Recommendation (optional): Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the organisation. National Education Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele) Good numerical and accuracy skills. Skills: Good
communication skills in at least two official languages of the Western Cape
Province. Good verbal and written communication skills Computer literacy
(Outlook, Ms Word, MS Excel) Interpersonal Relations.
DUTIES : To render administrative support to the marking processes and appointment of
marking officials in WCED To render administrative support to the pre-marking,
remarking/rechecking/ viewing processes To render administrative support to
the marking standardisation meeting processes Provide administrative support
to marking centre processes Provide general office administrative support
services to the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F Salie Tel No: (021) 467 2572
POST 17/483 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK GET REF NO: 91
Directorate: Curriculum General Education Training
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and collecting
statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
318
working environment. Skills: Computer skills; Planning and organisation; Good
verbal and written communication skills. Two of the three languages of the
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Assist with office support duties within the MST component. Core duties to
include, but not limited to compiling of submissions, liaise with MST schools,
record keeping, assist with procurement matters, processing of claims, assist
with the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA) monthly and quarterly reports,
populating financial excel spreadsheets, maintaining a good filing system and
office organisation, handling incoming queries. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to partnerships. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Schreuder Tel No: (021) 467 2623
POST 17/484 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO: 96
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Knowledge: Knowledge of employee relations related process.
Knowledge of employee relations related systems Knowledge of related
prescripts Ensure compliance with educator/public servant prescripts Skills:
interpersonal skills Analytical skills Problem-solving Decision making
Organising Good written and oral communication skills Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Capture and update case
management data for Individual. Relations Management. Handle routine
enquiries. Make photocopies, receive and send emails on behalf of Deputy
Director (DD). Answer telephone of DD and staff within the sub directorate and
take messages. Transfer calls to relevant staff members. Contribute to the
efficient management of the administration functions in the sub directorate.
Receive, sort and distribute mail/correspondence between DD and staff
members to relevant officials. Assist employee relations practitioners within the
sub directorate, with venue bookings for consultations and hearings,
conciliations and/or arbitrations. Provide supply chain clerical support services
within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation
to the procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Syster Tel No: (021) 467 2399
POST 17/485 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MISCONDUCT, DISPUTES AND GRIEVANCES
REF NO: 99 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Knowledge: Knowledge of employee relations related process.
Knowledge of employee relations related systems Knowledge of related
prescripts Ensure compliance with educator/public servant prescripts Skills:
interpersonal skills Analytical skills Problem-solving Decision making
Organising Good written and oral communication skills Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Capture and update case
management data for Individual. Relations Management. Handle routine
enquiries. Make photocopies, receive and send emails on behalf of Deputy
Director (DD). Answer telephone of DD and staff within the sub directorate and
take messages. Transfer calls to relevant staff members. Contribute to the
efficient management of the administration functions in the sub directorate.
Receive, sort and distribute mail/correspondence between DD and staff
members to relevant officials. Assist employee relations practitioners within the
sub directorate, with venue bookings for consultations and hearings,
conciliations and/or arbitrations. Provide supply chain clerical support services
within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation
319
to the procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Syster Tel No: (021) 467 2399
POST 17/486 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: 102 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of employee relations
related process. Knowledge of employee relations related systems. Knowledge
of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator/public servant
prescripts. Labour relations Act (LRA) 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators
Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act 1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. Basic understanding
of modern labour relations management / development and its processes,
methods and techniques. Knowledge of other related legislation Skills:
Numeracy | Literacy |Language skills |Computer Literacy Other: Planning and
organisation | Good verbal and written communication skills |Interpersonal
skills |Analytical skills| Problem solving |Decision Making |Ability to analyse,
conceptualise and interpret policy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Capture and update case
management data for Individual. Relations Management. Handle routine
enquiries. Make photocopies, receive and send emails on behalf of Deputy
Director (DD). Answer telephone of DD and staff within the sub directorate and
take messages. Transfer calls to relevant staff members. Contribute to the
efficient management of the administration functions in the sub directorate.
Receive, sort and distribute mail/correspondence between DD and staff
members to relevant officials. Assist employee relations practitioners within the
subdirectorate, with venue bookings for consultations and hearings,
conciliations and/or arbitrations. Provide supply chain clerical support services
within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation
to the procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Syster Tel No: (021) 467 2399
POST 17/487 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
FUNDING REF NO: 124
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, Plus 1-year Relevant work experience. Knowledge: PFMA, No 1 of
19999. Treasury Prescripts. Financial Delegations. NPO Act. Policy on
Financial Awards. Policy on Financial Awards Skills: Ability to motivate own
ideas and approaches. Ability to break down problems into manageable parts
and identify solutions. Ability to listen well and be receptive to the ideas of
others Ability to manage conflict. Ability to communicate (verbally or in writing)
with ease and confidence. Ability to speak in public and make presentation to
large or small group. Ability to use desktop communication and information
technology resources including MS Office software. Planning and organising.
Problem solving. Training. Supervision/Management of staff Interpersonal
relations. Budgeting. Leadership. Policy development. Liaising. Decision
making.
320
DUTIES : To evaluate and process prescribed documents for payment. Check Transfer
Payment Agreements (TPA’s) for correctness against approved funding
submission. Evaluate information on source documents for compliance with
prescripts and legislation i.e registration certificates, section 381 J of the PFMA
(written assurance), board’s declaration of interest, BAS entity form,
compliance documents ect. Changes in TPA/ Details of NPO verify and monitor
source documents in order to effect system changes on the NPO System.
Compile payment documents, update payment record and submit to
supervisor. Update NPO Data Base (UFC). Monitor compliance (TPA and
business plan) and identify noncompliance with prescribed policy/ legislation
and funding conditions. TPA’s Request activation sheet and follow up any
outstanding documents with the programmes/NPO’s. Receive consolidated
AFS update/ summary and activate/suspend payment. Reconcile subsidies
payable against approved allocation as per TPA and submit to supervisor
Underpayment: Compile payment Overpayment: Report to supervisor
Business Plans: Assist with the verification of the contents of the business plan
and supporting documents attached to NPO business plans (In accordance
with the call for proposals) Render a support function to Programme Offices
Alert programmes in terms of noncompliance issues Provide inputs to the
development of funding admin tools Record keeping of NPO financial
statements and other related documents Assist with the quality assurance of
all NPO related documents Assist with the collation of documentation in relation
to audit processes Record keeping, in alignment with record management
procedures (Electronic and hard copies) Respond to client enquiries Calculate
costing for the financial allocation of Partial Care facilities (Schedule A)-
enrolment form in alignment with departmental benchmarks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/488 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HEAD CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 126
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment Skills: Computer skills (MS Word, Excel). Planning and
organisation. Language (2 official languages). Good verbal and written
communication. Interpersonal.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/489 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSESSEMENT AND EXAMINATIONS REF
NO: 131
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. Proficiency in at least in two of the three official languages
of the Western Cape Province. Knowledge: Knowledge of administrative duties
and procedures. Familiarity with learner information and examination
management systems. Working knowledge of clerical and record keeping
procedures (filing, correspondence, data capture). Basic understanding of
National and Provincial assessment timetables. Skills: Excellent verbal and
written communication (to liaise with principals, teachers, and members of the
public). Strong numerical aptitude for verifying candidate lists, timetables, and
mark schedules. High level of accuracy and attention to detail in data capture
and document control, Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel,
Outlook) and electronic database systems. Reliable organizational and time
management skills to meet strict examination deadlines. Discretion and
integrity in handling confidential learner and examination materials. Customer
service orientation, with ability to respond professionally to queries. Able to
work in a challenging environment.
321
DUTIES : Assessment Administration: Register learners for internal and external
assessments; verify eligibility lists, Compile and distribute examination
timetables, stationery, and seating plans, Liaise with schools, exam venues,
and examination boards to confirm logistical arrangements, assist assessment
and examination DCES & SES with all administration functions. Data and
Record Management: Capture and update learner marks, attendance, and
examination outcomes on the information system, maintain accurate, up to
date electronic and hard copy records of assessment materials, Generate
statistical and status reports for the Curriculum Support Team and district
offices. Correspondence and Dispatch: Process all incoming and outgoing
assessment and examination related correspondence, Coordinate secure
dispatch and receipt of examination documents. Customer Support: Serve as
point of contact for principals, departmental heads, teachers, and members of
the public on assessment and examination procedures, provide telephonic
guidance on administrative requirements and troubleshoot scheduling or
registration issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/490 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEARNER SUPPORT REF NO: 132
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills.
Planning and organisation. Languages. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Assist with office support duties
within the component Learner Support. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide financial administration support
services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/491 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF NO:
133
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
322
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM¿¿¿s school visits and
activities. Provide financial administration support services in the component:
Capture and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call
record book, telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/492 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 10 REF NO: 137
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/493 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 9 REF NO: 141
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
323
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/494 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 8 REF NO: 143
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/495 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 7 REF NO: 144
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
324
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit.. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. 2. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component. 3.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/496 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 3 REF NO: 146
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
325
POST 17/497 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CIRCUIT 2 REF NO: 152
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/498 : ADMIN CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 157
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric Certificate or equivalent. To render supply chain management
(SCM) clerical services. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of SCM work procedures in
terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer Skills. Planning and
organisation. Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile and maintain records (e.g. asset records / databases). Check and
issue furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals.
Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal.
Verify inventories and asset register. Register suppliers on LOGIS (electronic
purchasing system) or similar system. Request and receive quotations via
relevant system. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system.
Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process.
Compile draft documents as required. Receive and verify goods from suppliers.
Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for consumables from
end users. Issue consumables to end users. Maintain consumable register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
326
POST 17/499 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 162
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate plus 6 months clerical experience.
Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and procedures. Public
service procedures. Knowledge of people management processes. Skills: Co-
operate with the stakeholders. Computer literate. Hardworking. Meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) to the District Office. Render clerical support with the coordination and
facilitation of the training and professional development plan to the District
Office. Render clerical support with the administration of Staff Performance
Management Systems at District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700(Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/500 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CIRCUIT 4 REF NO: 163
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/501 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CIRCUIT 5 REF NO: 165
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. To render administration clerical support
services within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
327
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CMs school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
CLOSING DATE : 10 June 2025
POST 17/502 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 172 (X2
POSTS)
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate plus 6 months clerical experience. To render
a general administrative and clerical support service for people management
at district level. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and
procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people management
processes. Skills: Co-operate with the stakeholders. Computer literate.
Hardworking. Meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) to the District Office. Render clerical support with the coordination and
facilitation of the training and professional development plan to the District
Office. Render clerical support with the administration of Staff Performance
Management Systems at District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700 (Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/503 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: GG TRANSPORT REF NO: 174
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : Senior /Matric certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of recordkeeping.
Knowledge of relevant Departmental Policies and Procedures. Knowledge of
relevant financial procedures Skills: Communication skills (2 official languages
of the Western Cape). Computer literacy skills. Problem solving skills. Report
writing skills. Recordkeeping abilities. Planning and organisation Interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Render clerical support with regard to GG Transport. Administer, verify and
update motor driver’s licenses register (file) of all personnel. Collect and check
all trip authorities and garaging documents. Check that logbooks and log
sheets are kept up to date. Check that all logbooks are signed off at the end of
the month, verified and submit to Head Office and GMT. Inspection of vehicles
after trips. Check claims submitted by GMT, verify and submit to Head Office
for payment. Check and verify transport log sheets, check for control purposes
the KM usage with authorise trips. Organise services of vehicles, replacement
328
of tires, batteries and cleaning of vehicles. Administer all fines on databases.
Check that vehicles are roadworthy, licenced and stored safely. Collect and
verify taxi trip authorities and file accordingly. Check and verify invoices for taxi
transport from GMT before sending for payment. Administer, verify and monitor
the use of rentals. Distribute transport circulars, minutes of transport related
meetings and the recordkeeping thereof Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers, statistics and make
photocopies. Handle routine enquiries. Distribute documents / packages to
various stakeholders as required. Type letters and/or other correspondence
when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East EDO)
POST 17/504 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 8 REF NO: 175
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills,
planning and organisation, good verbal and written communication skills.
Languages
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006(Metro East EDO)
POST 17/505 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 179
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate plus 6 months clerical experience.
Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and procedures. Public
service procedures. Knowledge of people management processes. Skills: Co-
operate with the stakeholders. Computer literate. Hardworking. Meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) to the District Office. Render clerical support with the coordination and
facilitation of the training and professional development plan to the District
Office. Render clerical support with the administration of Staff Performance
Management Systems at District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond: 021 900 7006(Metro East EDO)
329
POST 17/506 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT REF NO: 185
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/507 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT & GOVERNANCE REF NO:
190
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. To render administration clerical support services
within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services.: - Record, organise, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data. - Update registers and statistics. Keep
and update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
330
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM¿¿¿s school visits and
activities. Provide financial administration support services in the component:
Capture and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call
record book, telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
POST 17/508 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 199
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Senior /Matric certificate. To render administration clerical support services
within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/509 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 200
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate plus 6 months clerical experience.
Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and procedures. Public
service procedures. Knowledge of people management processes. Skills: Co-
operate with the stakeholders. Computer literate. Hardworking. Meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) to the District Office. Render clerical support with the coordination and
facilitation of the training and professional development plan to the District
Office. Render clerical support with the administration of Staff Performance
Management Systems at District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
331
POST 17/510 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DISTRICT CIRCUIT: CIRCUIT 9 REF NO: 205
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Senior /Matric certificate. To render administration clerical support services
within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. 2. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component. 3.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
4. Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/511 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 216
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Senior /Matric certificate. To render administration clerical support services
within the District Circuit. Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operates computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills, planning and organisation, good
verbal and written communication skills. Languages.
DUTIES : 1. Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep
and update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties (where applicable). Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. 2. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component. 3.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component.: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
332
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detail records of the CM’s school visits and activities.
4. Provide financial administration support services in the component: Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call record book,
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/512 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CIRCUIT 4 REF NO: 219
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Clanwilliam
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/Matric Certificate plus 6 months clerical experience. To render
a general administrative and clerical support service for people management
at district level. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and
procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people management
processes. Skills: Co-operate with the stakeholders. Computer literate.
Hardworking. Meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) to the District Office. Render clerical support with the coordination and
facilitation of the training and professional development plan to the District
Office. Render clerical support with the administration of Staff Performance
Management Systems at District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/513 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 234
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (or equivalent qualification) with Mathematics and/or Accounting as
subjects passed. A valid Code B (manual) driver's license. Knowledge:
Knowledge of financial processes. Ability to perform under pressure. Be a team
player as well as work independently. Skills: Good accounting and analytical
skills. Good numerical skills. Intermediate computer literacy in Microsoft Office
applications (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal
communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Good interpersonal skills. Basic problem-solving skills.
Illustrate a positive attitude.
DUTIES : Filing and safekeeping of documentation in accordance with prescripts and
assist with the disposal of obsolete records according to the National Archives
Act, including the retrieval of documentation. Provide administrative support to
the Directorate. Update and maintenance of relevant databases in the
directorate. Assist on procurement and contract management, stationery
management and asset management. Coordinate quarterly performance
reports including tracking completion of all compliance reporting within
directorate. Manage Directorate’s documents and information on Information
Management Systems. Perform ad-hoc duties as required by Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Z Mpisi Tel No: (021) 467 2511
POST 17/514 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMIN CLERK ORDERS REF NO: 239
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or relevant qualification plus at least 1-year practical
experience in a purchasing/selling environment (dealing with purchasing and
selling of goods/services through quotations or tenders and specifically
experience in ordering via Logis). Knowledge: Knowledge of SCM Practices,
processes and procedures, Preferential Procurement and financial legislation,
Knowledge and experience of Logis. Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word,
Excel and Access; Good verbal and written communication skills;
organisational and planning skills; report writing, problem solving and
numeracy skills. Attributes: Ability to work within a team as well as
independently whilst focussed on achieving targets; ability to prioritize and
333
organize work whilst functioning under pressure to handle high volumes and
meet strict deadlines; disciplined, orderly, systematic; effective communication
and maintenance of good interpersonal relationships.
DUTIES : Check order data against requisition for compiling and capturing; Capture
requisition details onto Logis; Search for item catalogue numbers (ICN) and
request treasury to create new ICN`s. Capture Petty Cash transactions on
Logis; Separate orders and scan to suppliers; Ensure all procurement
packages are complete, correctly filed and adhere to audit requirements;
Maintain record of order packages; Assist with administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Sidina Tel No: (021) 467 2253
POST 17/515 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: 248
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Matric / Grade 12 Certificate. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable
policies and procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people
management processes Skills: Interpret and apply relevant policies and
procedures. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To evaluate and process prescribed documents for payment: Check Transfer
Payment Agreements (TPAs) for correctness against approved funding
submission. Evaluate information on source documents for compliance with
prescripts and legislation i.e. registration certificates, section 381 J of the
PFMA (written assurance), boards declaration of interest, BAS entity form,
compliance documents etc. Changes in TPA/ Details of entities, verify and
monitor source documents in order to effect system changes. Compile
payment documents, update payment record and submit to supervisor. Monitor
compliance (TPA and business plan) and identify noncompliance with
prescribed policy/ legislation and funding conditions. Request activation sheet
and follow up any outstanding documents with entities. Receive consolidated
AFS, record and report. Reconcile subsidies payable against approved
allocation as per TPA and submit to supervisor. Compile payment:
Underpayment, Overpayment: report to supervisor. Render a support function
to Programme Offices. Alert programmes in terms of noncompliance issues.
Provide inputs to the development of funding admin tools. Record keeping of
NPO financial statements and other related documents. Assist with the quality
assurance of all NPO related documents. Assist with the collation of
documentation in relation to audit processes. Record keeping, in alignment
with record management procedures (Electronic and hard copies). Respond to
client enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 467 2584
POST 17/516 : SCHOOL SAFETY SUPPORT WORKER REF NO: 155
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 months relevant experience (preferably in
community work). A valid Code B driver's licence. Knowledge: Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993; Knowledge of health and safety
procedures and prescripts; Handbook on Reasonable Accommodation for
People with Disabilities in the Public Service, 2008; Disaster Management Act,
No 57 of 2002, Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (
COIDA); Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa; Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, 75 of 1997; Employee Health and Wellness Framework,
2012; Minimum Information Security Standards, 1996; National Archives and
Record Act, 1996; Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) of 1999; Treasury
Regulations 2001; Knowledge of financial administration prescripts Skills:
Computer Skills; Planning and Organisation Skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Numeracy skills.
Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to Public Ordinary and Special Schools Safety
Committee by improving and maintain School Safety. Ensure that truancy is
effectively addressed and that there is reintegration of learners. Assist the Safe
Schools Coordination Officer to develop and enhance effective and sustainable
334
Youth Development programmes at Public Schools. Render general clerical
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
POST 17/517 : SCHOOL SAFETY SUPPORT WORKER REF NO: 168
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 months relevant experience (preferably in
community work). A valid Code B driver's licence. Knowledge: Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993; Knowledge of health and safety
procedures and prescripts; Handbook on Reasonable Accommodation for
People with Disabilities in the Public Service, 2008; Disaster Management Act,
No 57 of 2002, Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (
COIDA); Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa; Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, 75 of 1997; Employee Health and Wellness Framework,
2012; Minimum Information Security Standards, 1996; National Archives and
Record Act, 1996; Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) of 1999; Treasury
Regulations 2001; Knowledge of financial administration prescripts Skills:
Computer Skills; Planning and Organisation Skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Numeracy skills.
Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to Public Ordinary and Special Schools Safety
Committee by improving and maintain School Safety. Ensure that truancy is
effectively addressed and that there is reintegration of learners. Assist the Safe
Schools Coordination Officer to develop and enhance effective and sustainable
Youth Development programmes at Public Schools. Render general clerical
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700(Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/518 : SCHOOL SAFETY SUPPORT WORKER REF NO: 208
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 months relevant experience (preferably in
community work). A valid Code B driver's licence. Knowledge: Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993; Knowledge of health and safety
procedures and prescripts; Handbook on Reasonable Accommodation for
People with Disabilities in the Public Service, 2008; Disaster Management Act,
No 57 of 2002, Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (
COIDA); Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa; Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, 75 of 1997; Employee Health and Wellness Framework,
2012; Minimum Information Security Standards, 1996; National Archives and
Record Act, 1996; Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) of 1999; Treasury
Regulations 2001; Knowledge of financial administration prescripts Skills:
Computer Skills; Planning and Organisation Skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Numeracy skills.
Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to Public Ordinary and Special Schools Safety
Committee by improving and maintain School Safety. Ensure that truancy is
effectively addressed and that there is reintegration of learners. Assist the Safe
Schools Coordination Officer to develop and enhance effective and sustainable
Youth Development programmes at Public Schools. Render general clerical
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/519 : SCHOOL SAFETY SUPPORT WORKER REF NO: 222
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 months relevant experience (preferably in
community work). A valid Code B driver's licence. Knowledge: Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993; Knowledge of health and safety
procedures and prescripts; Handbook on Reasonable Accommodation for
335
People with Disabilities in the Public Service, 2008; Disaster Management Act,
No 57 of 2002, Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (
COIDA); Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa; Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, 75 of 1997; Employee Health and Wellness Framework,
2012; Minimum Information Security Standards, 1996; National Archives and
Record Act, 1996; Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) of 1999; Treasury
Regulations 2001; Knowledge of financial administration prescripts Skills:
Computer Skills; Planning and Organisation Skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Numeracy skills.
Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to Public Ordinary and Special Schools Safety
Committee by improving and maintain School Safety. Ensure that truancy is
effectively addressed and that there is reintegration of learners. Assist the Safe
Schools Coordination Officer to develop and enhance effective and sustainable
Youth Development programmes at Public Schools. Render general clerical
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/520 : SCHOOL SAFETY SUPPORT WORKER REF NO: 250
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Parrow
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate plus 6 months relevant experience (preferably in
community work). A valid Code B driver's licence. Knowledge: Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993; Knowledge of health and safety
procedures and prescripts; Handbook on Reasonable Accommodation for
People with Disabilities in the Public Service, 2008; Disaster Management Act,
No 57 of 2002, Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (
COIDA); Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa; Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, 75 of 1997; Employee Health and Wellness Framework,
2012; Minimum Information Security Standards, 1996; National Archives and
Record Act, 1996; Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) of 1999; Treasury
Regulations 2001; Knowledge of financial administration prescripts Skills:
Computer Skills; Planning and Organisation Skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Numeracy skills.
Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to Public Ordinary and Special Schools Safety
Committee by improving and maintain School Safety. Ensure that truancy is
effectively addressed and that there is reintegration of learners. Assist the Safe
Schools Coordination Officer to develop and enhance effective and sustainable
Youth Development programmes at Public Schools. Render general clerical
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133 (Metro North EDO)
POST 17/521 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 107 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Knowledge And Information Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate) or equivalent (NQF4) with minimum 2 years
relevant experience in registry environment. A valid driver's license. The
Registry clerk is responsible to provide an effective and efficient registry and
records management service to Western Cape Education Department.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of Registry procedures and filing
systems. Knowledge of departmental structures and procedures. Knowledge
of file tracking system. Knowledge and understanding of electronic document
management systems (My Content). Promotion of Access to Information Act,
2000 (Act No. 2 of 2000). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act
No. 30f 2000). Knowledge and understanding of the Provincial Archives and
Records Service of the Western Cape, 2005 (Act No 3 of 2005) Skills:
Conceptual and formulation skills; Leadership skills; Team building and strong
inter-personal skills; Communication skills in at least two official languages;
Planning, organizing and people management skills; Computer literacy skills;
Analytical skills; Conflict; Decision-making; Time management.
DUTIES : Manage and control the application of created files. Maintenance and tracking
of borrowed and pending files. Opening, sorting and distribution of mail
336
internally and externally. Responsible for the correct and neat filing of
documentation. Assist the supervisor with the allocation of reference numbers
in line with the approved filing system. Handle client enquiries telephonically
and electronically. Requests and pending of files. Assist with the disposal of
records. Frank post, and update register daily. Assist to render electronic
document management support (My Content). Register new users, loading
access one-on-one training to user of Jtrack or an electronic document
management system (My Content)
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Jones Tel No: (021) 467 2766
POST 17/522 : REGISTRY CLERK: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 110 (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1 2 (Senior Certificate) or equivalent (NQF4) with minimum 2 years
relevant experience in registry environment. A valid driver's license. The
Registry clerk is responsible to provide an effective and efficient registry and
records management service to Western Cape Education Department.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of Registry procedures and filing
systems. Knowledge of departmental structures and procedures. Knowledge
of file tracking system. Knowledge and understanding of electronic document
management systems (My Content). Promotion of Access to Information Act,
2000 (Act No. 2 of 2000). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act
No. 30f 2000). Knowledge and understanding of the Provincial Archives and
Records Service of the Western Cape, 2005 (Act No 3 of 2005) Skills:
Conceptual and formulation skills; Leadership skills; Team building and strong
inter-personal skills; Communication skills in at least two official languages;
Planning, organizing and people management skills; Computer literacy skills;
Analytical skills; Conflict; Decision-making ;Time management
DUTIES : Manage and control the application of created files. Maintenance and tracking
of borrowed and pending files. Opening, sorting and distribution of mail
internally and externally. Responsible for the correct and neat filing of
documentation. Assist the supervisor with the allocation of reference numbers
in line with the approved filing system. Handle client enquiries telephonically
and electronically. Requests and pending of files. Assist with the disposal of
records. Frank post, and update register daily. Assist to render electronic
document management support (MyContent). Register new users, loading
access one-on-one training to user of Jtrack or an electronic document
management system (MyContent)
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 17/523 : REGISTRY CLERK: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: 130
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. To provide registry services. Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of Registry procedures and filing systems. Knowledge of
departmental structures and procedures. Knowledge of file tracking system.
Knowledge and understanding of electronic document management systems
(My Content). Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 (Act No. 2 of
2000). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act No. 30f 2000).
Knowledge and understanding of the Provincial Archives and Records Service
of the Western Cape, 2005 (Act No 3 of 2005) Skills: Conceptual and
formulation skills; Leadership skills; Team building and strong inter-personal
skills; Communication skills in at least two official languages; Planning,
organizing and people management skills; Computer literacy skills; Analytical
skills; Conflict; Decision-making ;Time management.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort register
and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective
filing and record management service. Opening and close files according to
record classification system. Print / filing / storage, tracing (electronically /
manually).and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all
files. Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and
337
maintain Franking machine register. Frank post, record money and update
register on a daily basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private
post is included. Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office.
Open & maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribe
in the remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance.
Send wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record
reference number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/524 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 171
District Office: Education District Office Metro Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Knowledge: Working knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Knowledge of the
National Archives and Record Management Act and related instructions.
Knowledge of and ability to handle labour saving devices. Skills: Computer
Literacy. Good verbal and written communication skills (2 Official Languages).
Planning and organisation. Interpersonal relations / team work. Filing and
reference skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Opening and close files according to record classification
system. Print / filing / storage, tracing (electronically / manually) and retrieval
of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate office
machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents for arching
and / disposal. Receive and sending of faxes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Robertson Tel No: (021) 514 6700(Metro Central EDO)
POST 17/525 : REGISTRY CLERK: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: 225
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. To provide registry services. Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of Registry procedures and filing systems. Knowledge of
departmental structures and procedures. Knowledge of file tracking system.
Knowledge and understanding of electronic document management systems
(My Content). Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 (Act No. 2 of
2000). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act No. 30f 2000).
Knowledge and understanding of the Provincial Archives and Records Service
of the Western Cape, 2005 (Act No 3 of 2005) Skills: Conceptual and
formulation skills; Leadership skills; Team building and strong inter-personal
skills; Communication skills in at least two official languages; Planning,
organizing and people management skills; Computer literacy skills; Analytical
skills; Conflict; Decision-making ;Time management
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort register
and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective
filing and record management service. Opening and close files according to
record classification system. Print / filing / storage, tracing (electronically /
manually).and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all
files. Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and
maintain Franking machine register. Frank post, record money and update
register on a daily basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private
post is included. Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office.
Open & maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribe
in the remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance.
Send wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record
reference number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
338
POST 17/526 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: 114 (X9 POSTS)
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Skills: Interpersonal, Problem Solving and Organising
skills. Decision Making and Conflict Resolution skills; Written and Oral
Communication skills; Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software:
MS Office Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Execute functions pertaining to: Conditions of service for Education and Public
Service staff, e.g. Leave administration. Rendering an exit management
service. Render general administrative duties with regard to service benefits.
Capturing the appointment of personnel on PERSAL. Render salary
administration pertaining to the appointment process. General administrative
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 17/527 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: PERFORMANCE AND ETHICS
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 119
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : NSC or Grade 12 qualification. Knowledge: Competency in the PERSAL
system. Competency in MS Office. Fluency in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Record all documents relevant to probations on a database. Schedule
meetings and provide logistical support to the Sub directorate. Schedule and
provide logistical support to training interventions. Record all relevant
information on PERSAL relating to Performance Agreements. Record all
applications relevant to RWOPS on a database. Record all relevant information
on PERSAL relating to RWOPS and e-Disclosures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2475
POST 17/528 : SCM CLERK REF NO: 142
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric Certificate or equivalent. To render supply chain management
(SCM) clerical services. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of SCM work procedures in
terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer Skills. Planning and
organisation. Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile and maintain records (e.g. asset records / databases). Check and
issue furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals.
Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal.
Verify inventories and asset register. Register suppliers on LOGIS (electronic
purchasing system) or similar system. Request and receive quotations via
relevant system. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system.
Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process.
Compile draft documents as required. Receive and verify goods from suppliers.
Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for consumables from
end users. Issue consumables to end users. Maintain consumable register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/529 : SCM CLERK REF NO: 160
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric Certificate or equivalent. To render supply chain management
(SCM) clerical services. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
339
statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of SCM work procedures in
terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer Skills. Planning and
organisation. Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile and maintain records (e.g. asset records / databases). Check and
issue furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals.
Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal.
Verify inventories and asset register. Register suppliers on LOGIS (electronic
purchasing system) or similar system. Request and receive quotations via
relevant system. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system.
Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process.
Compile draft documents as required. Receive and verify goods from suppliers.
Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for consumables from
end users. Issue consumables to end users. Maintain consumable register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
POST 17/530 : SCM CLERK REF NO: 201
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric Certificate or equivalent. To render supply chain management
(SCM) clerical services. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of SCM work procedures in
terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer Skills. Planning and
organisation. Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile and maintain records (e.g. asset records / databases). Check and
issue furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals.
Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal.
Verify inventories and asset register. Register suppliers on LOGIS (electronic
purchasing system) or similar system. Request and receive quotations via
relevant system. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system.
Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process.
Compile draft documents as required. Receive and verify goods from suppliers.
Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for consumables from
end users. Issue consumables to end users. Maintain consumable register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/531 : LEARNER TRANSPORT CLERK: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: 147
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Matric / Grade 12 Certificate and 6 months relevant clerical experience
Recommendation: Valid Drivers' License B. To render a clerical support
service with regards to Learner Transport Schemes. Knowledge: Knowledge
of recordkeeping. Knowledge of financial administration Skills: Written and
verbal communication in 2 official languages of the Western Cape. Organising
and planning. Functional numeracy. Computer literacy. Recordkeeping.
Interpersonal skills Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Execution of bi-annual vehicle testing and maintenance of database of all
vehicles. Maintain and update the database of all approved vehicles on LTS
routes indicating all relevant vehicle, license and roadworthy details. Request
principals of schools with devolved routes to identify in writing the details of the
approved vehicles prior to its inclusion on the database. Maintain and update
the database regularly in line with changes in the approved vehicles, licenses
and roadworthy renewal dates. Draw relevant reports on the testing, licensing
and roadworthiness of vehicles. Arrange testing of all approved vehicles, due
for the 6-monthly roadworthy test/s timeously. Prepare and submit to head
office on a monthly basis a schedule of the approved vehicles to be tested
during the following month. Arrange with the relevant traffic department officials
and learner transport contractors or schools (in cases of devolved routes), the
340
monthly testing of all approved vehicles as per the bi-annual testing schedule.
Require learner transport contractors and principals (in cases of devolved
routes) to obtain approval for the replacement of learner transport vehicles.
Keep record of all roadworthy testing results / reports. Arrange for the re-testing
of all approved vehicles that fail the initial roadworthy test/s. Inform schools and
learner transport contractors of cases where failed vehicles may not be used
on the road prior to the successful re-testing of vehicles and request that
relevant alternative arrangements are effected. Prepare and submit to head
office a monthly report on the testing of vehicles. Maintain and update all
records relating to Learner Transport. Report to Admin Officer LTS. Administer
payment of monthly claims. Receive claims and supporting documents, signed
by the principal from the learner transport contractor. Calculate the amount to
be paid, including penalties in cases of non-compliance, in accordance with the
contract specifications. Submit the claim documents to the Administrative
Officer LTS for verification. File all documentation in accordance with the
District Office file plan. Report to the Admin Officer LTS. KRA 3 Assist the
Administrative Officer with Learner Transport. The determination and
verification of learner transport route distances. Assist when necessary with
the investigation of complaints. Maintain and update Learner Transport
Complaints database. Assist when necessary with the inspection of learner
transport routes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/532 : LEARNER TRANSPORT CLERK REF NO: 217
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Matric / Grade 12 Certificate and 6 months relevant clerical experience
Recommendation: Valid Drivers' License B. Knowledge: Knowledge of
recordkeeping. Knowledge of financial administration Skills: Written and verbal
communication in 2 official languages of the Western Cape. Organising and
planning. Functional numeracy. Computer literacy. Recordkeeping.
Interpersonal skills Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Execution of bi-annual vehicle testing and maintenance of database of all
vehicles. Maintain and update the database of all approved vehicles on LTS
routes indicating all relevant vehicle, license and roadworthy details. Request
principals of schools with devolved routes to identify in writing the details of the
approved vehicles prior to its inclusion on the database. Maintain and update
the database regularly in line with changes in the approved vehicles, licenses
and roadworthy renewal dates. Draw relevant reports on the testing, licensing
and roadworthiness of vehicles. Arrange testing of all approved vehicles, due
for the 6-monthly roadworthy test/s timeously. Prepare and submit to head
office on a monthly basis a schedule of the approved vehicles to be tested
during the following month. Arrange with the relevant traffic department officials
and learner transport contractors or schools (in cases of devolved routes), the
monthly testing of all approved vehicles as per the biannual testing schedule.
Require learner transport contractors and principals (in cases of devolved
routes) to obtain approval for the replacement of learner transport vehicles.
Keep record of all roadworthy testing results / reports. Arrange for the re-testing
of all approved vehicles that fail the initial roadworthy test/s. Inform schools and
learner transport contractors of cases where failed vehicles may not be used
on the road prior to the successful retesting of vehicles and request that
relevant alternative arrangements are affected. Prepare and submit to head
office a monthly report on the testing of vehicles. Maintain and update all
records relating to Learner Transport. Report to Admin Officer LTS. Administer
payment of monthly claims. Receive claims and supporting documents, signed
by the principal from the learner transport contractor. Calculate the amount to
be paid, including penalties in cases of non-compliance, in accordance with the
contract specifications. Submit the claim documents to the Administrative
Officer LTS for verification. File all documentation in accordance with the
District Office file plan. Report to the Admin Officer LTS. KRA 3 Assist the
Administrative Officer with Learner Transport. The determination and
verification of learner transport route distances. Assist when necessary with
the investigation of complaints. Maintain and update Learner Transport
Complaints database. Assist when necessary with the inspection of learner
transport routes.
341
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/533 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: 177
District Office: Education District Office Metro East
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Knowledge: Knowledge of Departmental policies and
procedures. Knowledge of receptionist duties. Communications protocol.
Knowledge of Record Management (Registry & postmaster system). General
knowledge of Education District Structure (Operations). Client Care Etiquette.
Skills: Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software: MS Office
Package (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint) e-mail system, Internet. Organising
skills (Queue-Management skills). Filing skills. Operating of Switchboard.
Conflict Management Skills. Interpersonal skills. Listening skills. Good written
and verbal communications skills in 2 official languages of the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Receive clients visiting district office. Refer clients to relevant official / venues.
Take messages and delivered to employee. Receive mail and documentation
delivered to the Education District Office. Register hand delivered mail / files.
Access Control. Print and distribute attendance register of officials. File
documentation. Recording of all incoming and outgoing faxes. Sending
outgoing faxes immediately. Handover of faxes to responsible employee.
Register of all incoming and outgoing faxes in fax register. Answer and transfer
of telephone calls. Take messages if employees is not available. See that
employee receive all messages.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Diamond Tel No: (021) 900 7006 (Metro East)
POST 17/534 : DRIVER / MESSENGER REF NO: 196 (X2 POSTS)
District Office: Education District Office Metro North
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; a valid driver’s licence (EB), plus relevant experience. To render a
driver and messenger service for the district. Knowledge: Good driving skills,
good navigation skills in greater Cape Town Area, basic communication skills
in at least two of the official languages of the Western Cape Province; problem
solving; good organising and planning skills; good interpersonal skills in serving
clients / customers and good teamwork skills. Skills: Good driving skills, good
navigation skills in greater Cape Town Area, basic communication skills in at
least two of the official languages of the Western Cape Province; problem
solving; good organising and planning skills; good interpersonal skills in serving
clients / customers and good teamwork skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items (mail/documents/petty cash/goods). Do routine maintenance on
the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and
prescribed records and logbooks with regard to the vehicle and the goods
handled. Collect and deliver documentation and related item in the district.
Copy and fax documents. Assist in the registry. Transportation of staff to
various destinations as required. All internal driving needed must be done as
required (On site as required). All waste refuse must be removed from facility
to dumping site. Log-sheets, Trip authority forms and other related
documentation must be completed as prescribed. Ensure that the vehicles are
in good working condition suitable for driving. Minor maintenance and repairs
of vehicles. Responsible for the cleanliness of vehicles and assuring that all
vehicles are equipped with PPE. Schedule refilling of petrol, oil and tyre
pressure etc. Report and effect services or repairs of vehicles. Responsible for
obtaining quotations for such repairs. Ensure that vehicles are roadworthy at
all times. Ensure that the vehicles are in good working condition suitable for
driving. Responsible for the cleanliness of vehicles and assuring that all
vehicles are equipped with PPE. Schedule refilling of petrol, oil and tyre
pressure etc. Report and effect services or repairs of vehicles. Responsible for
obtaining quotations for such repairs. Ensure that vehicles are roadworthy at
all times. Ensure that the vehicles are in good working condition suitable for
driving.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Horn Tel No: (021) 938 3133
342
POST 17/535 : DRIVER / MESSENGER REF NO: 211
District Office: Education District Office Metro South
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior/ Matric Certificate. A Valid Code B or higher Drivers Licence,
plus relevant experience Knowledge: Good driving skills, good navigation skills
in greater Cape Town Area, basic communication skills in at least two of the
official languages of the Western Cape Province; problem solving; good
organising and planning skills; good interpersonal skills in serving clients /
customers and good teamwork skills. Skills: Good driving skills, good
navigation skills in greater Cape Town Area, basic communication skills in at
least two of the official languages of the Western Cape Province; problem
solving; good organising and planning skills; good interpersonal skills in serving
clients / customers and good teamwork skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items (mail/documents/petty cash/goods). Do routine maintenance on
the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and
prescribed records and logbooks with regard to the vehicle and the goods
handled. Collect and deliver documentation and related item in the district.
Copy and fax documents. Assist in the registry. Transportation of staff to
various destinations as required. All internal driving needed must be done as
required (On site as required). All waste refuse must be removed from facility
to dumping site. Log-sheets, Trip authority forms and other related
documentation must be completed as prescribed. Ensure that the vehicles are
in good working condition suitable for driving. Minor maintenance and repairs
of vehicles, Responsible for the cleanliness of vehicles and assuring that all
vehicles are equipped with PPE. Schedule refilling of petrol, oil and tyre
pressure etc. Report and effect services or repairs of vehicles. Responsible for
obtaining quotations for such repairs. Ensure that vehicles are roadworthy at
all times. Ensure that the vehicles are in good working condition suitable for
driving. Responsible for the cleanliness of vehicles and assuring that all
vehicles are equipped with PPE. Schedule refilling of petrol, oil and tyre
pressure etc. Report and effect services or repairs of vehicles. Responsible for
obtaining quotations for such repairs. Ensure that vehicles are roadworthy at
all times. Ensure that the vehicles are in good working condition suitable for
driving.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer- Williams Tel No: (021) 370 2000 (Metro South EDO)
POST 17/536 : MESSENGER / DRIVER REF NO: 109
Directorate: Knowledge And Information Management
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and Drivers Licence. Knowledge: Appropriate
knowledge and experience of messenger services as well as registry functions.
Skills: Must be a team player and self-motivated. Driving; Good written and
verbal communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape; Good public relations skills; Computer literacy; (MS Word, MS
Excel etc.); Good Interpersonal skills Knowledge: Appropriate knowledge and
experience of registry and messenger functions and records/ documents
management systems and programmes. Basic driving and minor vehicle
mechanical knowledge; geographic location of districts and clients, knowledge
of WCG Buildings To assist to implement property.
DUTIES : Collection, picking up, delivering and posting of letters, documents, parcels,
Photostats, reprographics, faxes, files, records and other documents. Walking
and driving from various pick-up stations; preparing of file covers and letters
for franking; assist with execution of functions of the records division as
requested; record documentation received and delivered in appropriate
registers and electronic systems; assist in rendering transport services and do
minor emergency maintenance of vehicle (e.g. changing of flat tyre, maintain
vehicle, etc.) To render driving and messenger services to line functionaries at
WCED Head Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Jones Tel No: (021) 467 2766
343
POST 17/537 : FOOD SERVICES AID REF NO: 243 (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 plus experience in a food service environment. Basic literacy and
numeracy skills. Skills: Good communication skills; Basic literacy and
numerical skills; organizational and planning skills; problem solving skills.
Ability to work in a team and to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide a food aid service to officials at Head office; Collect, wash, dry and
return all crockery, cutlery and utensils to staff; Keep kitchen, dining hall and
food storage areas hygienically clean and tidy; Prepare and serve water and
refreshments at meetings; Provide hot and cold water to staff on a daily basis;
Render a relief service in related sphere of work, when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821
POST 17/538 : HANDY MAN: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: 128
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate (Grade 10) plus 6 months relevant experience. Basic
knowledge of electrical maintenance (replacing bulbs, plugs). Basic knowledge
of plumbing, carpentry and machinery. Basic knowledge of building
maintenance. OHS requirements. Handling of machinery and equipment.
Skills: Writing, reading and numeracy skills. Communication skills. Practical
skills. Skills to operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Maintenance of buildings. Maintenance of office-, garden equipment’s,
machinery and furniture. Maintain the garden and outside areas. Perform
general assistant work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/539 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 247
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus technical knowledge of telephone network systems.
Knowledge: Broad knowledge and practical experience of the external and
internal telephone network systems and ability to work under pressure. Skills:
Computer literate; Good verbal communication skills; organisational and
planning skills; report writing and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide a telecommunications support function at Head Office. Administration
and arranging the correction of all PABX faults; Administration of the Service
Terminal of the telephone system; Administration of new telephone
installations; Control over the switchboard (relief duty) whenever required;
Procurement of official cell phones for Head Office personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 467 2821
POST 17/540 : PHOTOCOPY OPERATOR: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO:138
District Office: Education District Office Cape Winelands
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8. Summary: To provide photocopier services for the Education District
Office. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures regarding
reprographic services. Knowledge of appropriate legislation (e.g. Occupational
Health and Safety) Understanding of the work in registry. Skills: Basic
Numeracy and literacy. Ability to operate reprographic machinery. Language
skills (2 Official languages). Communication skills. Writing skills. Organising
skills Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Operate the photocopier machines (Adhere to the stipulations and safety
measures as presented by the Occupational, Health and Safety Act). Make
photocopies for staff. Report any malfunctioning of photocopier machines to
supervisor. Keep records of photocopier machine activities and meter
readings. Scanning of documents. Binding and laminating of documents.
344
Deliver Photostats etc. to designated destinations. Monthly printing report
according to pin codes / per user. Provide counter service. Receive the request
form and documents. Record documents received and delivered in a register.
Contact client / or deliver when documents are ready. Attend to counter
queries. Perform minor maintenance on the photocopier machine. Identify
record and arrange for the repair of defects to the machine. Ensure that the
maintenance contractual agreements are enforced. Arrange for the servicing
of and repair to the machine. Arrange for installation, moving of reprographic
machinery. Undertake the general maintenance and cleaning of the machine.
Make requisitions for photocopying materials. Ensure that photocopying
materials and equipment are stored securely. Arrange for the re-ordering of
copy papers, staples and toners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 17/541 : PHOTOCOPY OPERATOR REF NO: 149
District Office: Education District Office Eden & Central Karoo
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8. To provide photocopier services for the Education District Office.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures regarding reprographic
services. Knowledge of appropriate legislation (e.g. Occupational Health and
Safety) Understanding of the work in registry Skills: Basic Numeracy and
literacy. Ability to operate reprographic machinery. Language skills (2 Official
languages). Communication skills. Writing skills. Organising skills
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Operate the photocopier machines (Adhere to the stipulations and safety
measures as presented by the Occupational, Health and Safety Act). Make
photocopies for staff. Report any malfunctioning of photocopier machines to
supervisor. Keep records of photocopier machine activities and meter
readings. Scanning of documents. Binding and laminating of documents.
Deliver Photostats etc. to designated destinations. Monthly printing report
according to pin codes / per user. Provide counter service. Receive the request
form and documents. Record documents received and delivered in a register.
Contact client / or deliver when documents are ready. Attend to counter
queries. Perform minor maintenance on the photocopier machine. Identify
record and arrange for the repair of defects to the machine. Ensure that the
maintenance contractual agreements are enforced. Arrange for the servicing
of and repair to the machine. Arrange for installation, moving of reprographic
machinery. Undertake the general maintenance and cleaning of the machine.
Make requisitions for photocopying materials Ensure that photocopying
materials and equipment are stored securely. Arrange for the re-ordering of
copy papers, staples and toners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jonkers Tel No: (044) 803 8300 (Eden & Central Karoo EDO)
POST 17/542 : MESSENGER REF NO: 105 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Knowledge And Information Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Requirements: National Senior Certificate (or equivalent (NQF 4); A minimum
of 1 year experience in a messenger, registry or administrative environment.
Recommendation: A valid Code B or higher Drivers Licence; appropriate
experience in a registry environment would be an advantage. To render an
effective and efficient messenger service to the support and line functionaries
at the WCED Head Office and assist registry. Services where needed.
Knowledge: Appropriate knowledge and experience of messenger services as
well as registry functions. Skills: Team Building and strong inter-personal skills.
Communication skills in at least two official languages. Planning, Organizing
and People management skills. Computer Literacy. Decision Making. Time
management. Good written and verbal communication skills. must be a team
player and self-motivated.
DUTIES : Collection, picking up, delivering and posting of letters, documents, parcels,
Photostats, reprographics, faxes, files, records and other documents. Walking
and driving from various pick-up stations; preparing of file covers and letters
for franking; assist with execution of functions of the records division as
requested; record documentation received and delivered in appropriate
345
registers and electronic systems; assist in rendering transport services and do
minor emergency maintenance of vehicle (e.g. changing of flat tyre, maintain
vehicle, etc.)
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Jones Tel No: (021) 467 2766
POST 17/543 : GENERAL WORKER/GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 85
Directorate: Cape Teaching & Leadership Institute
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : ABET (Basic Literacy). Knowledge: Basic safety precautions in handling
hazardous material liquids. Use of cleaning equipment. Maintenance / care of
cleaning equipment Skills: Basic communication skills. Basic literacy skills.
Ability to work in garden and handle equipment. Ability to work in office with
cleaning utensils.
DUTIES : Perform general work. Load and off load furniture, equipment’s and any other
goods to relevant destination. Clean government vehicles. Clean relevant
workstation / offices. Prepare and clean venues. Raise / lower SA Flag.
Maintain premises / building. Cleaning premises and surroundings. Cleaning
offices corridors, elevators and boardrooms by: Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and
shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning
of dirt bins. Collect and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas.
Closing of windows. Clean general kitchens by: Cleaning of basins. Wash and
keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the restrooms by: Refilling hand wash
liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers. Empty and
wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Report
broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwaves,
vacuum cleaners, etc) and equipment after use. Request cleaning materials.
Keep and maintain stock register. Maintain and water interior garden / plants.
Refresh water cooler daily. Maintain the garden and outside areas. Watering
the garden. Clean gutters, furrows and drains. Prune and trim flowers and
trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides
and other poisons. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment’s and tools. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipment and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
Request maintenance material. Keep and maintain stock register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 900 5026
POST 17/544 : GENERAL WORKER/GROUNDSMAN: CIRCUIT 5 REF NO: 220
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal
REQUIREMENTS : ABET (Basic Literacy). Knowledge: Basic safety precautions in handling
hazardous material liquids. Use of cleaning equipment. Maintenance / care of
cleaning equipment Skills: Basic communication skills. Basic literacy skills.
Ability to work in garden and handle equipment. Ability to work in office with
cleaning utensils.
DUTIES : Perform general work. Load and off load furniture, equipment’s and any other
goods to relevant destination. Clean government vehicles. Clean relevant
workstation / offices. Prepare and clean venues. Raise / lower SA Flag.
Maintain premises / building. Cleaning premises and surroundings. Cleaning
offices corridors, elevators and boardrooms by: Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and
shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning
of dirt bins. Collect and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas.
Closing of windows. Clean general kitchens by: Cleaning of basins. Wash and
keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the restrooms by: Refilling hand wash
liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers. Empty and
wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Report
broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwaves,
vacuum cleaners, etc) and equipment after use. Request cleaning materials.
Keep and maintain stock register. Maintain and water interior garden / plants.
Refresh water cooler daily. Maintain the garden and outside areas. Watering
the garden. Clean gutters, furrows and drains. Prune and trim flowers and
trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides
346
and other poisons. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment’s and tools. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipment and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
Request maintenance material. Keep and maintain stock register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
POST 17/545 : GENERAL WORKER/GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 224
District Office: Education District Office West Coast
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : ABET (Basic Literacy). Knowledge: Basic safety precautions in handling
hazardous material liquids. Use of cleaning equipment. Maintenance / care of
cleaning equipment Skills: Basic communication skills. Basic literacy skills.
Ability to work in garden and handle equipment. Ability to work in office with
cleaning utensils
DUTIES : Perform general work. Load and off load furniture, equipment’s and any other
goods to relevant destination. Clean government vehicles. Clean relevant
workstation / offices. Prepare and clean venues. Raise / lower SA Flag.
Maintain premises / building. Cleaning premises and surroundings. Cleaning
offices corridors, elevators and boardrooms by: Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and
shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning
of dirt bins. Collect and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas.
Closing of windows. Clean general kitchens by: Cleaning of basins. Wash and
keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the restrooms by: Refilling hand wash
liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers. Empty and
wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Report
broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwaves,
vacuum cleaners, etc) and equipment after use. Request cleaning materials.
Keep and maintain stock register. Maintain and water interior garden / plants.
Refresh water cooler daily. Maintain the garden and outside areas. Watering
the garden. Clean gutters, furrows and drains. Prune and trim flowers and
trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides
and other poisons. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment’s and tools. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipment and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
Request maintenance material. Keep and maintain stock register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Truter Tel No: (021) 860 1209 (West Coast EDO)
347