PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 25 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 18 JULY 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION: Kindly note that the
following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 04 July 2025.
The following amendments have been made to the salary level: (Level 14) amended to
(Level 13).
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG: DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION:
Please note that the below posts which were advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 22 dated 27 June 2025 were withdrawn. Senior Admin Officer: Transport in the
Financial Administration sub-directorate, Unit: Auxiliary Services and Fleet Management
within Ekurhuleni North District with Ref No: REFS/022782 and Senior Admin Officer:
Transport in the Financial Administration sub-directorate, Unit: Auxiliary Services and
Fleet Management within Ekurhuleni South District with Ref No: REFS/022790.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH-WEST: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT- Kindly note that the positions of Chief
Director: District Coordination and Government Fleet and Chief Director: Transport
Operations: Reference numbers: 08/2025/2026 and 09/2025/2025, respectively,
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 of 2025 issued on 04 July 2025 with
the closing date of 18 July 2025 are amended. The amendments are as follows:
OCJPOST: Chief Director – District Coordination And Government Fleet: The note
indicating that Male candidates are encouraged to apply should be ignored. Post: Chief
Director – Transport Operations: The note indicating that Female candidates are
encouraged to apply should be ignored. Closing Date: 25 July 2025.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR A 04 - 10
HEALTH B 11 - 12
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING C 13 - 26
HUMAN SETTLEMENTS D 27 - 28
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT E 29 - 39
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY F 40 - 41
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 42 - 44
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT H 45 - 48
TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION I 49 - 51
WATER AND SANITATION J 52 - 54
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG K 55 - 56
KWAZULU NATAL L 57 - 59
LIMPOPO M 60 - 79
WESTERN CAPE N 80 - 107
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS REF NO:
HR4/4/10/830
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Knysna (Western Cape)
4
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in
Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource Management, Labour
Relations, Social Science (Developmental Studies, Social Work, Nursing
Industrial Psychology/Psychology, Qualifications with Research Economics,
and Statistics as major subjects), Engineering Science (Civil and/or
Construction Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Environmental Health, Analytical Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry,
Explosives Management, Explosives Engineering), Management, Public
Management/Administration, Business Management/Administration,
Operations Management, Project Management, Commerce (General),
Administrative Information Management, Administrative Management,
LLB/BCOM Law/BA Law/B Proc. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) at
an Assistant Director level and three (3) years’ functional experience in labour
market operations / services delivery environment. Valid Driver’s Licence.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Supply
Chain Management processes, Asset Management, All Labour Legislations,
Departmental policies and Procedures, Public Service Regulations, Batho Pele
Principles, Service Delivery Plan. Skills: Management, Communication (both
verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Conflict Management, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Conflict Management, Change Management, Diversity
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, Leadership and Project
Management.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per the mandate of Department of
Employment and Labour. Represent the Department in key stakeholder
forums including interdepartmental structures of government and
municipalities including those dictated by the District Development Model
(DDM) (Intermediate). Implement and manage service delivery improvement
plan. Manage all the resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-KNS@labour.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/08/139
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years’ National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Financial Management / Supply Chain Management / Purchasing /
Logistics / Public Administration / Finance / Accounting / economics / Internal
Audit. Four (4) year experience of which two (2) years must be at supervisory
level and two (2) years functional experience in Supply Chain Management
environment. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Public Service
Transformation and management issues. Departmental Policy and
Procedures. White Paper on transformation of Public Service. Public Service
Act. Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts. Batho Pele principles.
Labour relations and collective bargaining systems. Minimum Information
security standards. Skills: Administration and Financial Management. Problem
solving. Self-Management. Budgeting and Financial Management. Customer
Focus and responsiveness. Developing Others. Verbal and written
communication. Planning and Organising, Problem Solving Decision-Making,
Project management. Team Leadership. Managing Interpersonal Conflict,
Impact and Influence, Computer Literacy, Diversity Management, Networking
and building bonds, Driving.
DUTIES : Manage demand of goods and services in the Province, Provide and monitor
acquisition/procurement services in the province, manage logistics in the
Province, Manage and monitor the assets in accordance with the relevant
policy and procedure, Render and monitor contract administration support
services and compliance, Manage all resources of the Section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mogongoa Tel No: (053) 8381610
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
5
POST 25/03 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/10/832
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Communications Science/ Marketing/ Public Relations/ Media
Studies and Journalism. Two (2) years supervisory experience. Two (2) years
functional experience in Media/ Public Relations/ Marketing/ Communication
Services. Valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Basic knowledge of all
legislations, Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Interpersonal, Computer Literacy, Commination skills, Problem
Solving, Listening and observation, Negotiation, Event Management.
DUTIES : Provide public relations and media liaison services at Provincial level including
performing duties and responsibilities as spokesperson of DEL in the Province.
Organise stakeholder briefings and exhibitions for the whole Province (Bi-
weekly). Market the services of the DEL at Provincial level. Manage DEL
internal communications such as notice boards, posting of information on
intranet, updating staff on issues affecting the department in the media,
production of internal newsletter, etc. Coordinate and facilitate all internal and
external events in the province, such as Imbizo outreach, Programmes, outside
broadcasts, national commemorative days, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Jobs-WC3@LABOUR.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR MARKET INFORMATION STATISTICS
REF NO: HR4/4/10/834
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Social Science/Economics/Statistics. Two (2) years supervisory
experience. Two (2) years functional experience in labour market data
processing/statistics. Valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge: Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts, Departmental policies and
procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Statistics and Data software packages,
Functioning of DEL Labour Centres and Business Units, Labour market
dynamics, Labour legislation. Skills: General management, Project
management, Communication, Computer Literacy, Research, Interpersonal
Relations, Leadership, Data analysis, Analytical, Innovative.
DUTIES : Manage performance information of the provinces in the Department of
Employment and Labour, in order to ensure that the pre-determined plans and
objectives of the organisation are provincially monitored and successfully
achieved in line with the applicable government prescripts. Promote
accountability and transparency by providing Government and the public with
timely, accessible, accurate and quality assured provincial performance
system; Monitor and evaluate implementation of Service Delivery Improvement
Plans. Assist in consolidating and analysing trends recorded through quarterly
performance reports against targets. Manage all the resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Jobs-WC4@LABOUR.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FRAUD INVESTIGATIONS AND ANTI-
CORRUPTION REF NO: HR4/4/10/835
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year qualifications National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Risk Management/ Internal Audit/ Accounting/
Forensic Investigations. Two (2) years supervisory experience. Two (2) years
functional experience in anti-fraud/ corruption environment. Valid Driver’s
6
Licence. Knowledge: Investigative Principles and Practices, Departmental and
Fund’s Policies and Procedures, All Labour legislations, Anti-Fraud and
Corruption Policies, Legal environment: Court and Criminal Procedures, Fraud
related administration and operations, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Regulations, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Unemployment
Insurance and Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act. COIDA. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Time Management, Conflict Management, Analytical.
Investigation, Communications (Verbal & Written), Computer Literacy,
Presentation.
DUTIES : Implement Fraud detections and Anti-Corruption Strategies for Provincial
Office. Conduct investigations on reported cases and Fraud and Corruption.
Assist in recovery of all assets acquired fraudulently from the Provincial Office.
Analyse systems capabilities to anti-fraud and corruption management
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Jobs-WC4@LABOUR.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/06 : INSPECTOR BCEA REF NO: HR4/4/10/836 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Labour Centre (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB. Two (2) years
functional experience in inspection and enforcement services. Valid driving
license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Labour Relations
Act, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, UI Contributions, Employment Equity Act. Immigration
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning
organising, Leadership, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovation, Analytical.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Sectoral Determination and the National Minimum Wage Act. Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
BCEA, SD and NMWA & Regulations and enforce as and when necessary.
Plan and conduct structured advocacy on BCEA, SD and NMWA
independently, and analyse impact thereof consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans execution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-CTN@labour.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/07 : OHS INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/10/837 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Bellville Labour Centre (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year tertiary qualification National Diploma
(NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Environmental Health,
Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Construction, Biology, Microbiology,
Biomedical Sciences, Biotechnology, Biochemistry. A valid driver’s licence. Two
(2) years functional experience in inspections and enforcement of labour
legislations or in the relevant environment. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, OHS
Regulations, South African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes
become regulations, Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases
Act, Unemployed Insurance Act, Employment Equity Act – relevant key
elements, Basic Conditions of Employment Act –relevant key elements,
Relevant guidelines of aforementioned legislation Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills,
7
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. Plan, investigate and finalise
independently incidents and complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations and enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court
as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive inspections as per
schedule to monitor compliance with the OHS and other relevant labour
legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating from such
inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation
independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans and reports including, execution of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q. Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-BELL@labour.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/08 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR4/4/10/838
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Beaufort West (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ LLB/BCOM LAW.
Valid driver’s license. Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection and
Enforcement Services. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of the following
Departmental Policies and procedures Skills Development Act, Labour
Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Levies
Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes,
Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act,
Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem
solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all Labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act
(EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS),
and UI Contribution Act (UCA) ,Plan and execute investigations independently
on reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour legislation and enforce
as and when necessary including making preparations for and appearing in
Court as a State witness ,Plan and conduct allocated proactive (Blitz)
inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour legislation including
compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from such inspections
,Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation independently,
analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report ,Manage the
finalisation of files of cases received and investigations conducted by the
Inspectors ,Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance
of regional inspection plans and reports including execution of analysis and
compilation of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases
,Ensure that non-compliant employers are referred for prosecution within the
relevant time frames.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q. Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-BEA@labour.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/09 : CLAIMS ASSESSOR REF NO: HR 4/4/8/941
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Welkom, Free State
8
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management/ Business Management/ Operations Management/
Management/HRM/ Nursing/ Law/ LLB/ BCom/ Finance/ Administration. 1-year
functional experience in claims/medical processing environment. Knowledge:
Relevant regulations, laws and legislation, Treasury Policies and PFMA
Regulations (Legislative Framework), Claims Handling, Brand and Customer
Oriented Service Delivery, Relevant Compensation Fund policies, procedures
and business processes, Public Service Act and Regulations, COID Tariffs,
Public Service Charter, Approved COID Delegation, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, Road Accident Fund (RAF) Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act (OHS), The Constitution of RSA. Skills: Claims registration, Tariffs
Administration, Communication verbal and writing, Analysing & Interpreting
Information (Data Analytics), Claims Assessment/ Settlement, Post claims
management and settlement, Claims handling, Claims verification and
validation, Monitoring & Evaluation, Data gathering Analysis.
DUTIES : Adjudicate registered customer claims as per the delegation’s requirements.
Prepare complex claims. Coordinate, capture and approve Compensation
Benefits. Handle claims enquiries and advocacy sessions. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Qhalane Tel No: (057) 391 0200
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: Jobs-fs11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 25/10 : INSPECTOR REF NO: HR 4/4/4/05/14
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kempton Park, Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant tertiary qualification Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. A valid driver’s license. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection
and Enforcement Services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing
(Mainly for own), Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills,
Negotiation skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing, listening and
observation skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary. Plan and conduct
proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaign on all Labour Legislation
independently. Draft and maintain inspection plans and reports including
analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on only allocated
cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ralane Tel No: (010) 061 107
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resource Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng
POST 25/11 : INSPECTOR: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/10/842
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mossel Bay (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ in Labour
Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental
Policies and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment
Insurance Contribution Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own
work), Computer (Spread sheets, Power Point and word processing),
Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication, Employment Equity Act.
9
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-MBY@labour.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 25/12 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/10/843 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Senior Certificate. 0 to 6 months’ experience. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Public Service Regulation, Public Service Act, Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Customer Care. Skills: Communication
(verbal and written), Listening, Computer Literacy, Customer Relations,
Decision Making.
DUTIES : Receive and assess all the UI Claims on the relevant systems in line with the
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Register all employers and verify the
declaration of employees as per the relevant prescripts. Execute the payment
of approved claims as per the set time frames. Attend to enquiries relating to
all processed claims or any other matter relating to the processing of claims.
Perform administrative duties in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Jobs-WC6@LABOUR.gov.za Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box
872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and
Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
10
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand-delivered applications may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 04 August 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Please note
by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing,
and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
OTHER POST
POST 25/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CLINICAL TB CARE REF NO: NDOH 72/2025
Directorate: DOTS Strategy Coordination
This is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have previously applied need to re-
apply
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Health Science or Social
Science as recognized by SAQA. Post graduate qualification in public Health
will be an advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience in health programme
management, training or facilitation, clinical management of TB and/ or HIV
patients, stakeholder management working in public health care environment.
Knowledge of HIV & AIDS and TB field, policy development, government rules
and regulations. Knowledge and understanding of South African public health
system, TB programme and applicable policies and legislation. Good
communication (verbal and written), project management, decision making,
analytical, stakeholder management, organizing and computer skills (MS
Office package).
11
DUTIES : Strengthen integration of TB and HIV services. Provide technical support to
Provinces on the implementation of the appropriate model for TPT and care at
District, Facility and Community levels. Organise and conduct training. Provide
technical assistance to Provinces and Districts in the development of their
training plans. Conduct TB management training for nurses and other health
care providers on the treatment of TB infection. Conduct support visits to
priority Provinces and Districts to monitor programme implementation. Ensure
uninterrupted supply of medicines used for the treatment of TB infection.
Conduct an investigation of stock-outs in pharmacies and depots.
Implementation of the end TB and closing the gap campaigns. Provide
technical support on the implementation of the campaigns at provincial and
district levels.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Mvusi Tel No: (012) 395 8816
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Central Johannesburg TVET College)
(COASTAL KZN TVET College)
(Maluti TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/14 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES
(MINISTERIAL PROGRAMMES) REF NO: CAO 07/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits
CENTRE : Coastal KZN TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or equivalent qualification plus undergraduate National Diploma (NQF
Level 6) in Education or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. 3-5
years relevant experience in Education Teaching and Learning environment or
related field. Knowledge of PSET and CET. Knowledge of teaching and
learning. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations
and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the Public TVET
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and
understanding of the Higher Education sector. Knowledge of Education Act.
Skills: Administrative, planning and organizing, financial management, report
writing, communication and interpersonal, problem solving, computer literacy,
analytical, client oriented, project management, team leadership, people
management. Values and Attitudes: Client service focus, integrity, committed,
proactive, loyal and ethical.
DUTIES : Oversee Curriculum Management and Administration. Develop, implement,
monitor academic and curriculum policies. Support the implementation of new
programmes. Support the implementation of new programmes, qualifications
and revised National Curriculum (Vocational). Update NC(V) qualifications
policy with SAQA. Coordinate review of the ICASS guidelines for report 191
and NC(V). Develop policy/guidelines for management of curriculum
(classroom management policy). Monitoring the conduct of assessments on all
programmes. Provide required report to college executive and oversight
bodies. Oversee coordinated curriculum delivery at all the college’s delivery
site. Ensure the implementation of best practice teaching in collaboration with
the campus manager. Oversee Academic Management Services. Provide
academic support to lecturing staff. Plan for delivery of quality teaching and
learning. Ensure that enrolment targets are set and achieved. Assist with
admission processes. Assist students to have and receive the necessary
career guidance to enable them to make informed programme choices. Ensure
the provision of guidance for the improvement curriculum content and delivery
based on engagement with public and private industry stakeholders. Analyse
results and plan for intervention of critical subjects (Action Plan). Plan for
delivery quality teaching and staff. Provide Learning Materials. Coordinate
activities for the development of learning materials. Identify learner material,
equipment and other resource requirements. Dissemination of overall learning
materials. Management of all humans. Financial and other resources of the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : NF Xaba Tel No: (031) 905 7000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Acting
Principal, Coastal KZN TVET College, P O Box 1795, Amanzimtoti, 4126, email
address: recruitment@coastalkzn.edu.za or hand deliver to 50051 Mfundi
Mngadi Drive, KwaMakhutha, (Mon-Fri 07:30 – 16:00)
NOTE : Direction To Candidates Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and must be fully
completed, dated and signed. Clear indication of the post and reference
number that is being applied for must be indicated on your Z83 form as well as
a recent, comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and detailed curriculum
vitae. Communication regarding certified copies of Qualifications and other
relevant documents will be limited to only shortlisted candidates. Therefore,
only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or
before the day of the interview, following a communication from the College
Human Resources Management Administration Unit. Should you be in
13
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Late
(received after closing date and time) and incomplete applications will not be
considered. The employer is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment
decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) in the Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate
whose appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical
targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer Reserves
The Right Not To Make An Appointment. Where applicable, candidates may be
subjected to a skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates. All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and
citizen verification, criminal record and financial/asset record checks.
Applicants who have not been invited for an interview within 60 days of the
closing date should consider their application unsuccessful
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
CJC/SSS/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. An appropriate Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree
(NQF 7) in Psychology or BA. Social Work (Major in Psychology) or equivalent
qualification. 3-5 years’ supervisory experience at a salary level of 7 or 8 in an
education/teaching and learning environment or a related field. Sound
knowledge of career guidance, including the disability of students. Computer
literate and competent in Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook/Teams. Good verbal
and written communication skills, presentation and report writing skills. A valid
driver’s licence. Strong interpersonal, communication, analytical, client-
oriented, motivational, negotiation and problem-solving skills. Good
administrative, planning and organising, financial management, report writing,
project management, team leadership and people management skills. Ability
to work under pressure and willingness to work extended hours when required.
A proven record in working successfully with diverse populations. A positive
attitude and ability to plan and adapt to change. Ability to collaborate effectively
with college departments and cross-functional teams. An expert understanding
of student academic support services. Ability to design and implement internal
administration systems and controls to ensure sound student support. Tactical
decision-making skills. Ability to manage sports, art and culture activities.
Knowledge of PSET and CET Act. Knowledge of Teaching and Learning.
Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act and Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the National Student
Financial Aid Scheme and related legislation. Knowledge of the Public TVET
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge of the ethical,
regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of the
Higher Education sector.
DUTIES : Oversee the administration of the student support services unit. Overall
management and coordination of the student support services unit. Develop
the annual student support services operational plan. Management and
provision of student counselling services. Develop and monitor implementation
of career guidance plans. Develop and monitor the induction and orientation
programme. Manage the implementation of academic support referral
systems. Develop and manage annual student support services budget.
Management and facilitation of student governance and student leadership
development. Manage mainstreaming of gender and disability within students.
Develop and manage implementation of student health and wellness
programmes. Develop and monitor alumni services as well as tracking systems
of previous college students. Management and implementation of sports,
recreation, arts, and culture programs in the college. Prepare and provide
regular reports to the academic board, management and college council.
Provide relevant and timely management information to all other relevant
stakeholders. Management of human, financial, and other resources of the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
14
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
CJC/FA/09/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised Bachelor’s Degree / National
Diploma in Financial Accounting / Cost & Management Accounting / Internal
Auditing. Preference will be given to candidates with five (5) years of financial
experience, who have in-depth knowledge of expenditure, fixed assets,
inventory, revenue functions, clearing of accounts and reconciliations. A
minimum of three (3) years of supervisory experience. Knowledge of Basic
Accounting Systems (BAS). In-depth knowledge of the requirements of the
CET Act, PFMA and Treasury Regulations; experience in management of
accounts and financial reporting requirements, good interpersonal,
communication and managerial skills; ability to work under pressure with strict
deadlines and good computer literacy skills (MS Office, SAGE and ITS). A valid
driver’s license. Registration with a professional body will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Formulate and regularly review financial management policies. Monitor the
effectiveness of financial operations through the assessment of key financial
performance indicators. Facilitate and coordinate the annual budgeting
process. Perform monthly budgetary and expenditure analysis. Coordinate,
manage and monitor cash flows. Analyse, manage and monitor monthly
reconciliation of bank, debtors, creditors, suspense and general ledger
accounts. Authorise and monitor employee salaries, deductions and
allowances and ensure annual reconciliation of employee tax. Authorise
supplier and creditor payments in line with treasury regulations and college
policies. Manage college assets, inventory and consumables registers. Ensure
maintenance of detailed records of fixed assets. Ensure accurate calculation
and recording of depreciation for all college fixed assets. Prepare inventory,
fixed assets and expenditure reports for management on a monthly basis. Plan
and manage regular audits and stock-taking of assets and consumables.
Ensure accurate and proper recording, utilisation and classification of financial
transactions including allocated funds. Establish systems to maintain and
safeguard all financial records. Compile and submit all reports and information
as may be required by Management, College Council, Department of Higher
Education and Training and/or Auditor General. Manage the issuing of College
claims and confirmation of balances. Compile financial statements for each
financial year. Liaise with auditors to ensure a smooth audit process and
positive audit reports. Manage staff. Liaise with all internal and external
stakeholders relevant to the KRAs of the Financial Accounting Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
15
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/17 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: (OFFICE MANAGER) OFFICE OF THE
PRINCIPAL REF NO: CJC/OP/10/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma in Office
Management and Technology / Public Management or related qualification.
Practical experience in Office Management and Technology / Public
Management. A post graduate qualification in the relevant field/s will be an
advantage. Relevant experience in strategic planning and administration
environment. Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies.
Knowledge of PSET. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET
Administration. Understanding of the Higher Education sector will be an added
advantage. A clear demonstrated knowledge of Principal’s statutory,
governance and management responsibilities to ensure that they are met.
Ability to coordinate and execute all activities pertaining to College Council and
its Sub-Committees, Academic Board and Management. An understanding of
corporate governance to effectively support the College Council. An
understanding of cost centre budgetary, expenditure, cash flow and supply
chain management. Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and
Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related legislation.
Excellent administrative skills and a track record in the preparation of strategic
documents, presentations and databases. Proven ability to perform difficult,
complex and detailed clerical and administrative work with accuracy and
speed. Advanced computer literacy, including MSWord, Excel and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Render administrative/executive support services in the office of the Principal.
Provide secretariat support to College Council, Council Committees, Academic
Board, Senior Management and other external stakeholders. Provide strategic
management, monitoring and evaluation services. Oversee and maintain
logistics within the office of the principal. Arrange all meetings (Sub-committee,
Council, EXCO and other external stakeholders). Arrange all academic board
and academic board committee. Arrange and support for training interventions.
Coordinate the décor layout, food service, invitation and media protocol
requirements for college-hosted functions. Maintain stock of standard forms
and stationery. Establish and maintain an effective records management
system. Management of all human, financial and other resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed on line
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
16
POST 25/18 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MARKETING AND COMMUNICATION REF NO:
CJC/11/2021
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Service
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma or Bachelor’s
Degree in Communication or Marketing or equivalent qualification. Valid
driver’s licence. 5 years experience in marketing and/or communication
environment of which three must be at supervisory level. Knowledge of policies
and governance environment of TVET Colleges including knowledge of the
annual reporting requirements by the Higher Education Institutions. Knowledge
and understanding of the monitoring of performance management and
development system. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET
Administration. Knowledge and understanding of the Higher Education sector,
especially the policies relevant to legislation. Strong administrative, planning
and organising, financial management, report writing, communication and
interpersonal, problem solving, computer literacy, analytical, client oriented,
project management, team leadership and people management skills.
DUTIES : Develop, update and maintain communication and marketing strategies,
policies and procedures. Constantly identify and align information sharing and
communication practices/platforms to adapt to the changing communication
environment and to maximise target market reach. Oversee and monitor
implementation of the college branding strategy. Provide guidelines to
management and staff on college branding related matters. Manage and
coordinate high level college events including annual graduation ceremony and
special functions such as launches. Manage public relations and media liaison
services. Nourish existing client relations and partnerships by ensuring that
client satisfaction levels are maintained and by promoting sound client relations
across all sites. Oversee the development and production of college
publications, including but not limited to the annual report, college newsletter,
prospectus and profile. Regularly communicate College campaigns on social
media and on online communication. Regularly maintain the content, design
and layout of the college website. Provide photographic services and write
articles for the college. Manage human, financial and other resources of the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CJC/FAMA/12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised three (3) years National
Diploma/ Degree (NQF level 6) in Building Management / Safety Management
/ Construction Management / Property Management / Civil Engineering or
relevant qualification. A post graduate qualification in the relevant field/s will be
an advantage. At least 5 years’ relevant experience in the Facilities
17
Management, SHERQ and OHS environment. Knowledge of Public Service
Act and Regulations, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Immovable Asset
Management Act, ISO accreditation, CET Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Labour Relations Act, PFMA and Treasury Regulations, telephone
management system, fire control system and facilities management system.
Advanced computer skills including Excel. Strong planning and organizing,
financial management, project management, resource mobilisation,
communication and interpersonal, problem solving, analytical, client
orientation, leadership, people management, negotiations, written and verbal
communication, presentation and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Oversee the construction and maintenance of buildings and premises. Ensure
compliance to SHERQ and OHS Act. Develop and implement fleet
management policies and procedure. Maintain the physical security function
including key control, personnel, document and surveillance security. Ensure
proper handling of College records, documents and archiving. Manage all
infrastructural projects in liaison with the Principal Agent. Assist in identifying,
collating, recommending and tracking college infrastructural projects. Assess
ad-hoc projects proposals and motivate relevant project work. Ensure that work
is correctly scoped. Coordinate and develop the strategic infrastructural and/or
maintenance plan of the college. Where directed manage the required tasks
borne of the College Infrastructural Efficiency Grant CIEG) of the project, and
ensure that work is aligned to the DHET’s requirements thereof. Ensure
projects are managed through their phases, from project initiation, to delivery
to close-out. Work / Liaise with relevant stakeholders to manage projects.
Maintain a risk register for all projects undertaken. Maintain sound relationships
between internal and external stakeholders. Compile and submit
comprehensive reports and ensure adherence to reporting standards. Ensure
there is complete close out report before the rest of the project costs are paid
out. Management of all human, financial and other resources of the unit
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed on line
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/20 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: CJC/SSA/13/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits as applicable in the Public Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. A recognized three-year Degree / Diploma in
Accounting / Financial Management or equivalent qualification. 5 years’
experience in a relevant financial environment. computer literate. At least three
years of experience working with ITS payroll will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of financial functions and practices practices as well as the ability
to capture data and collate financial statistics. Knowledge of financial
accounting procedures, methods and principles established for the processing
of salaries and financial transactions. Transactional experience of accounting
systems specifically relating to posting of accounting entries. Knowledge of the
public sector financial management compliance and reporting requirements.
Proven computer literacy, including MSWord and Excel. Planning and
organizing, Good verbal and written communication skills. Flexibility and
interpersonal relations skills. Ability to pay attention to detail. Valid drivers’
licence.
18
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of budget and expenditure control systems. Draw
and analyse monthly accounting reports and supervise corrections, where
necessary. Manage income and expenditure. Administer payroll control and
salary administration. Review all payroll reconciliations and ensure salary
control accounts are balanced. Ensure overall supervision and provision of the
salary administration service. Any Ad Hoc requests from the AD – Financial
Accounting and CFO. Oversee verification of information for payroll
certification. Ensure the correct classification of payroll costs in line with GRAP
requirements. Quality assure all payroll transactions. Conduct reconciliation of
transactions on the college payroll system with the accounting records. Ensure
distribution of pay slip to all staff are open on the electronic system. Manage
annual SARS reconciliation submission EMP50. Ensure distribution of IRP5’s
to all staff are open on of the electronics system. Safeguard all financial
records. Assist in the compilation of financial statements for each financial year.
Prepare the unit for the financial audit and respond to queries raised by internal
and external auditors. Manage human, physical and financial resources of the
unit. Perform ad-hoc assignments from the ASD Financial Accounting and
Deputy Principal Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed on line
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for, (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish
to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/21 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
MALUTITVET/SPHRD001/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Corporate Office (Bethlehem)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ Standard 10 or NCV Level 4. National
Diploma/Degree in Human Resource/Development. Minimum of three (3)
years relevant experience. Minimum of two (2) years experience at supervisory
level. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, and MS Power point). PERSAL
introduction certificate. Valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities), Competencies and attributes: Knowledge and understanding of
PMDS and IQMS. Knowledge and understanding of coordination and
facilitation of training. Understating of legislative framework governing the
Public Services. Storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment.
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of training and development programmes.
Facilitate the development of Work Skills Plan. Administer bursaries in the
College. Administer Internship and learnership programmes. Administer
Performance Management Development System, Integrated Quality
Management System and coordinate Training for College. Facilitate the
development of job descriptions. Formulate the Employment Equity Plan for
the College. Manage human, financial and other resources in the unit. Perform
any other duty related to the post.
Enquiries : Mr GD Mokoena Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management, Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office, Private Bag
X33, Bethlehem, 9700 OR Human Resource Management, Maluti TVET
College: Corporate Office, Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700.
Email applications can be forwarded to this email address:
hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
19
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
POST 25/22 : EXAMINATION OFFICERS (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bethlehem campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Bhm001/2025
Bonamelo Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Bon002/2025
Harrismith Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Harr003/2025
Itemoheleng Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Ite004/2025
Lere La Tshepe Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Lere005/2025
Sefikeng Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Sef006/2025
Main Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/Main007/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) in Education/ Administration or
equivalent qualification). 2-3 years in the examination services / Teaching and
Learning environment/ related field. Competencies and attributes: Knowledge
of White Paper on PSET Act, Knowledge of the Public TVET sector and its
regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of the
Higher Education sector. Knowledge and understanding of COLTECH system,
TVETMIS, and ITS Knowledge of practice notes, national, provincial policy
frameworks relevant to Education, Training and Development. Knowledge of
Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act,
Labour Relations Act.
DUTIES : Coordinate internal and external examination assessment services.
Coordinate and conduct training of Invigilators, Markers and Data Capturers.
Facilitate examination and Irregularity Committee for the campus and serve as
a Secretariat. Process application and issuing of certificate services. Provide
administration support for the examination unit. Supervise staff. Perform any
other duty related to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Ntsela Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management, Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office, Private Bag
20
X33, Bethlehem, 9700 OR Human Resource Management, Maluti TVET
College: Corporate Office, Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700.
Email applications can be forwarded to this email address:
hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
POST 25/23 : PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
MALUTITVET/HRD002/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Corporate Office (Bethlehem)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ Standard 10 or NCV Level 4.
Recognized National Diploma in Human Resource Management/Development
(NQF level 6) or relevant qualification. Introduction to PERSAL certificate. 2-3
years’ relevant experience in Human Resource development environment.
Competencies and attributes: Knowledge: Knowledge and understating of the
application of Public Service legislative framework (PSA, PFMA, PSR etc.).
Knowledge and understanding of coordination and facilitation of training.
Knowledge and understanding of application of Employment Equity Act.
Knowledge and understanding of PMDS and IQMS. Skills: Coordination and
facilitation of training programmes. Planning and organizing. Communication
(Good verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Flexibility. Customer care
services. Report writing. Teamwork. A Certificate in facilitation/ Assessor/
Moderator will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement all training and development programmes in line with approved
plans. Facilitate the development and implementation of Work Skills Plan.
Process bursaries in line with the departmental policy. Coordinate the
implementation of Internship and Learnership Programmes. Coordinate the
implementation of Performance Management Development System,
Integrated Quality Management System and coordinate training for College
staff. Facilitate the development of job descriptions. Provide assistance on the
21
development, review and implementation of Employment Equity Plan for the
College. Supervise human resources/employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GD Mokoena Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management, Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office, Private Bag
X33, Bethlehem, 9700 OR Human Resource Management, Maluti TVET
College: Corporate Office, Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700.
Email applications can be forwarded to this email address:
hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
POST 25/24 : CAMPUS ADMINISTRATORS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R352 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bonamelo Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/CA001/2025
Itemoheleng Campus Ref No: MALUTITVET/CA002/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management and
Technology/Public Management or equivalent qualification. 2-3 years relevant
experience in Administration environment. Competencies and Attributes:
Knowledge of office administration. Knowledge of Public Service legislations
and policies. Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies. Knowledge
of PSET. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration.
Understanding of the Higher Education sector. Understanding of corporate
governance. Understanding Cost center budgetary, expenditure and cash flow
management. Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related legislation.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Draw up a campus enrolment plan for
both NCV and report 191. Gather departmental information and compile a
report for A-TEAM and Campus Management. Prepare reports, presentations,
and other correspondence. Arrange meetings, conferences, workshops and
other gatherings as required. Provide other secretarial support services to
22
campus management. Administer and coordinate human resource services
Coordinate Leave forms and submit to central office. Coordinate PMDS
documents and submit to central office. Coordinate all relevant documentation
pertaining to disciplinary cases and grievances. Follow up and resolve all
human resource administration queries and issues emanating from campus
staff. Maintain human resource records administration. Monitor the attendance
register for staff. Coordinate the compilation of duty registers and payment for
part-time lectures. Support the implementation college staff wellness
programme at campus level. Provide procurement services. Recommend
purchase requisitions to Campus Manager. Draft procurement memo. Draft
procurement memo. Complete requisition form. Receive goods and services.
Coordinate and submit invoices to central office for processing. Verify the
correctness of goods and services supplied against the appropriate
documentation Follow-up on campus requisitions made. Maintain a proper
filing system. Maintain files for all campus staff. Filing of all relevant
documentation according to QMS requirements and National Achieve Act.
Keep record of postage received from central office and ensure that the
distribution is done accordingly and register is kept by the relevant official.
Administer student registration and examination process. Assist in the
registration of students. Store student portfolios of evidence and student
records. Scan documents of students. Capture and reconcile information for
students. Ensure data exceptions and corrections. Process the details of
applications for programmes and credits. Coordinate the student registration
process. Coordinate the examination process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Ntsela Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management, Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office, Private Bag
X33, Bethlehem, 9700 OR Human Resource Management, Maluti TVET
College: Corporate Office, Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700.
Email applications can be forwarded to this email address:
hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
23
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
POST 25/25 : IT TECHNICIAN REF NO: MALUTITVET/IT004/2025
SALARY : R352 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sefikeng Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized National Diploma in Information Technology (IT)/ Computer
Science or equivalent A+, ITIL v3 Foundation, Valid code B driver’s licence, at
least 1-2 years’ experience in IT environment. Software and hardware support
(Windows Microsoft). Competencies and attributes: IT Hardware and Software.
Understanding of Desktop, Networking and Voice communication
infrastructure. Program Installations. Understanding of IT Help Desk operation.
Full comprehension of IT first and second line of IT support. Effective customer
relations. BAS (Desktop). PERSAL(Desktop). MIS Systems and any related
Systems (Desktop). COLTECH(Desktop).
DUTIES : Assist in management of Service Desk and Desktop support function services.
Setup user account on desktop and laptop (mailbox and windows). Unlocking
of password using Admin Pack. Setting up desktop, printers and data
projectors. Assist in maintaining a service catalogue and standard operating
procedures. Implementation of IT services Desk policies. Perform backups
information and anti-virus support and offsite storage. perform trouble shooting
and diagnosis Support the availability of emails services, internet services,
application services on workstation and availability of connection to transversal
mainframe system. Install, maintain, support telephone system and network.
Perform installation, configuration, testing and upgrade tasks that may require
some research and analysis. Provide telephonic support. Prove network
cabling. Perform PC installations and software installations. Provide technical
support of the configuration, installation, repair and replacement of computers,
printers and telephones Configuring mainframe applications (BAS, LOGIS &
PERSAL) Troubleshooting of all issues reported Provide support of data
migration during computer setup Rendering of IT information management
services: Plan, develop and improve computer based information systems.
Maintain information management systems such as database to ensure
integrity and security of data Gather and analyses users’ issues in ICT and
provide solutions. Provide assistance on ICT related project activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Ntsela Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management, Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office, Private Bag
X33, Bethlehem, 9700 OR Human Resource Management, Maluti TVET
College: Corporate Office, Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700.
Email applications can be forwarded to this email address:
hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
24
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2025
POST 25/26 : FINANCIAL AID OFFICER REF NO: CJC/FAO/14/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma / Degree in Financial
Accounting or equivalent qualification. 2 years’ experience working in the
bursary administration environment. A good understanding of the TVET
College Bursary Scheme requirements and regulations of the National
Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). Basic knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data. Computer literacy (Ms
Words and Excel) and ability to collate and handle qualitative and quantitative
data. Good communication skills (verbal and written) and interpersonal
relations. Ability to operate office equipment and perform routine tasks. Ability
to pay attention to detail, work under pressure and meet deadlines. Extensive
working A driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide student financial assistance support at all registration times. Provide
advocacy on all financial aid support to new students during registration and
orientation period. Provide advocacy on all financial aid support to progressing
and gap year students. Support students and facilitate smooth registration and
application of financial assistance to both new and progressing applicants.
Provide support and facilitate NSFAS online system. Capture campus NSFAS
applicants on the registration template for submission to NSFAS. Assist
students with private accommodation and travel allowance applications.
Administer student attendance report requisitions. Verify student
accommodation with property owners. Be responsible for verbal and written
enquiries from students, parents and other relevant stakeholders. Coordinate
student bursary schemes and financial aid administrative support services.
Administer the bursary and financial aid schemes application processes in line
with NSFAS guidelines, funder MOU/SLA and policies. Create bursary fund on
the ITS system. Create bursary applications and estimates on ITS system.
Coordinate the authorization of disbursement funds. Facilitate other financial
aid schemes and options where possible. Allocate bursary remittances on the
ITS System. Maintain effective record keeping systems to facilitate smooth
external audits and positive audit outcomes. Liaise with the finance department
and ensure that financial aid accounts are updated and reconciled on a
continuous basis. Provide guidance to bursary clerks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed on line
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
25
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
POST 25/27 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK NO: CJC/SCMC/15/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma in Supply
Chain Management / Logistics / Public Management) equivalent/related
qualification. Basic knowledge of supply management duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data. Knowledge of assets disposal procedure.
Knowledge and understating of legislative framework governing Public
Services. Knowledge of procedures in terms of the working environment.
Knowledge of assets management. Knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury
Regulations and the CET Act. Planning and organizing, Communication (verbal
and written), computer literacy, flexibility, customer care orientation. Flexibility
and teamwork.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support by performing the following
tasks: - update and maintain supplier (Including contractors) database; register
suppliers on business management system; request and receive quotations;
capture specification on the electronic purchasing system; place orders; Issue
and receive quotations; provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid
consideration and contracts conclusion process and compile draft documents
as required. Render logistical services by placing orders; receive and verify
goods from suppliers; capture goods in registers database; receive request for
goods from end users and issue goods to end users. Conduct spot checks and
stock counts. Maintain records and filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B KhakhuTel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: (a) a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the title and reference number of the post you are
applying for and (b) a recently updated CV. Incomplete applications or
applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post you
wish to apply for. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed,
faxed, posted or hand delivered applications will be considered. The college
reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will be
entered into with the shortlisted and successful candidates only. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you
are not contacted after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Central Johannesburg TVET College
is an equal opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16:00
26
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
The Department of Human Settlements is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representativity (race, gender & disability). The candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be forwarded to dhs@tttrecruitment.co.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : Please note that your personal information will be collected for the purposes of
the recruitment process only. By populating the Z83 form you are consenting
to the processing of your personal information. It will be expected from the
selected candidates to be available for the interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department of Human Settlements. Applicants must note
that further checks will be conducted once they are short-listed and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification verification and criminal records. If you apply
for more than one position in the Department, please submit separate
application forms for each post. Applications must be submitted on a new Z83
form, obtainable from the Department of Public Service and Administration’s
website or any Public Service department and must be accompanied by a
detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of interview/s as directed by the Human
Resources representative. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit the required documents will result in your application not
being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
only. Please note that the all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employee’s Fund and
a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. As of 1st July 2006, all new
appointments in the public service must be part of the Government Employee
Medical Scheme (GEMS) to qualify for a Government Medical Subsidy. SMS
posts: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department: Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment: The competency assessment will be
testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. Prior to appointment, a candidate would be
required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course. The
course is available on the NSG website under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. If you
have not been contacted within four (4) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department of Human Settlements reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not
to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment
process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/28 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: DOHS/29/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate must have Matric/Grade 12 or equivalent; Relevant
Undergraduate qualification or equivalent (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in Communications, Multi-Media studies or Journalism. A postgraduate
degree will be an added advantage. The candidate must have a minimum of
five (5) years relevant experience at Senior Management level in
Communications, Multi-Media and Journalism environment in the Public or
Private Sector. Skills And Competencies: Advance knowledge of relevant
government, legislations, policies and regulations particularly the Public
Finance Management Act and Regulations (PFMA); Public Service Act and
27
Regulations, Independent Communication Authority of South Africa Act
(ICASA), Electronic Communications and Transactions Act (ECTA),
Government Communications Policy, Government Communications
Information Systems (GCIS) policies and protocols and Parliamentary
Protocols and linkages with government clusters. Must have skills in strategic
management, annual performance planning, operational planning,
performance management and the ability for effective performance planning,
implementation, reporting, monitoring and evaluation. Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management skills, financial management,
service delivery and innovation, problem solving and analysis, conflict
management, change management skills and the ability to work for extended
hours and under pressure. Must have excellent communication skills (both
written and verbal), public relations, client relations, multi-media digital
communications and deep understanding of web culture, social media
platforms and channels, knowledge management, people management, client
orientation, customer focus, diversity management, financial management, risk
management and good corporate governance. Must have a valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to provide internal and external
communication services to the Department, build communication networks and
inter-sectoral communication and stakeholder management platforms for
National, Provincial and Local Government within the Human Settlement
Sector. Oversee the Strategic, Annual and Operational Plans of the
Communications Unit and the Communications and Marketing Plan of the
Department and ensure effective performance management against pre-
determined objectives, reporting and implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, including multi-media communication analytics. Provide media
liaison and communication through various multi-media services, digital and
electronic web-based multi-media and social platforms in the communication,
promotion and marketing the Department. Oversee the image of the
Department in the digital and social media space against all applicable
legislations. Provide support to the Executive Authority’s communications,
multi-media strategy, and service delivery programmes, media events and
campaigns, from design through to delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Tshokolo Tel No: (012) 444-1473
NOTE : Female candidates and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply
28
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 04 August 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/29 : SENIOR FAMILY ADVOCATE (LP9) REF NO: 25/VA12/NW
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate NW- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognised 4 year legal qualification; At least eight (8) years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admission as an Advocate;
A valid driver’s licence; Knowledge of applicable Standard Operation
Procedures (SOP’s); Proven track record of previous managerial experience
in a legal environment; Skills and competencies: Good communication skills,
both verbal and writing; Litigation technique (both High Court and Lower Court);
Research and investigation; Presentation; Monitoring and evaluation; Attention
to details; Diversity Management; Dispute and Conflict resolution skills;
Operational management skills; People management; Financial management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Senior Family
Advocate (Head of Office) in accordance with relevant legislation; Monitor
improvement in the organizational performance of the office and its saterlite
service point; Manage performance information; Manage and ensure effective
and efficient service delivery at the various points within the jurisdiction Head
of Office; Conduct complex enquiries; Provide effective people Management in
the office; Implement risk management plan and ensure audit compliance.
29
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng, or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/30 : FAMILY ADVOCATE (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 25/VA13/NW
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate NW- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized 4-year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admittance as an Advocate;
Fluency in Afrikaans will be added as an advantage; A valid driver’s license.
Skills and competencies: Good communication skills (verbal and writing);
Research and investigation; Monitoring and evaluation; Report writing skills;
Diversity management; Dispute and Conflict Resolution skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family
Advocate in accordance with relevant legislation; Attend to Hague matters
when delegated to do so; Endorse settlement agreements or commenting
thereon; Institute and conduct enquiries to ascertain the best interests of the
minor child through alternative dispute resolution (ADR) procedures and
evaluation; Attend to relevant circuit courts within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng, or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/31 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5-LP6) REF NO: 25/VA11/NW
SALARY : R630 630 – R1 450 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Attorney NW: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At
least 4 years’ appropriate post qualification legal/ litigation experience; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, Office management, accounting systems
and trust accounts; The right of appearance in the High Court of South Africa;
Knowledge of the government prescripts and transformation objective as well
as the Constitution of South Africa; A valid driver’s license. Skills and
competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute
resolution; Case flow management; Accuracy and attention to details; Good
communication (written and verbal); Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal in the
High Court, Magistrates Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims,
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, Tax and Tax tribunals;
Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft and/or settle all types of arrangements
on behalf of various clients; Attend to liquidation and insolvency, queries,
conveyancing and notarial services; Deal with all forms of arbitration, including
inter-departmental arbitration; Register trust and debt collection; Provide
effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a current certificate of good
standing from the relevant law Society, along with a service record.
POST 25/32 : DEPUTY MASTER (MR-6) REF NO: 25/40/FS
SALARY : R586 956– R1 386 972 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Bloemfontein
30
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or a four-year recognized legal qualification; 8 years appropriate
post qualification legal experience; Knowledge of the Administration of Estates
Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency Act, Companies Act, Close Corporations
Act, Trust Property Control Act and other relevant legislations; Experience in
the functional fields of the services provided by the Masters of the High Court
and Masters environment including Guardian’s Fund; Understanding of
Administration of Deceased & Insolvent Estates, Curatorship’s and Trusts.
Skills and competencies: Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution;
Planning, organizing and analytical skills; People development and
empowerment; Strategic and conceptual orientation; Problem solving and
decision-making skills; Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor and review all legal and administrative
operations at the Office of the Master of the High Court; Monitor all the
functions within the office and contribute towards the strategic objectives of
both the Masters Branch as well as the Department; Provide effective and
efficient delivery of services, financial and human resource management within
the Office of the Master; Draft legal documents that provide clear justification;
Mediate and conciliate disputes by advising on the outcome of its resolution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili at (073) 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to: The Director: HR, Private Bag X20578;
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered at 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/33 : COURT MANAGER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Kimberley Magistrate Office Ref No: 09/25/NC/KIM
Kuruman Magistrate Office Ref No: 10/25/NC/KUR
Mothibistad Magistrate Office Ref No: 11/25/NC/MOT
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration /Management/Law/Legal studies
or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of 3 years
experience in court management environment of which 2 years should be as a
supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA);
Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Accounts; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Planning and
organizing; Problem solving; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human
resource, risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business
planning processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile an analyse court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer
service improvements strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Segopa Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings,
(Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
Note: Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to
utilize courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
31
POST 25/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: 25/10/FS
Provincial Office: Mahikeng Ref No: 25/VA19/NW
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management / Industrial and
Organisational Psychology / Labour Relations / Law as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of 3 years’ experience in human resource management with a
specific emphasis on a labour relations work environment at a supervisory
level; Knowledge of Labour Relations legislative frameworks, methodologies
and strategies in the Public Service; Knowledge and understanding of the
Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance
Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions, etc. Skills and
competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Planning and organizing; Problem
solving and decision making; Project management; Managing Interpersonal
relationship; Communication and information Management; Developing others;
Diversity Management; Conflict management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the implementation of collective bargaining
proceedings; Facilitate the implementation of dispute resolution processes and
procedures; Facilitate disciplinary and grievance processes and procedures;
Coordinate and facilitate capacity building and advocacy relating to Labour
Relations matters; Coordinate and facilitate stakeholder relations; Manage
human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi at Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Direct your application to: The Director: HR, Private Bag X20578;
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered at 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 25/35 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office: Smithfield Ref No: 25/11/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Jacobsdal Ref No: 25/12/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Theunissen Ref No: 25/13/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kimberley Ref No: 15/25/NC/KIM (X1 Post)
Magistrate office Britstown Ref No: 16/25/NC/BRI (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Griekwastad Ref No: 17/25/NC/GRI (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Noupoort Ref No: 18/25/NC/NOU (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Garies, Ref No: 19/25/NC/GAR (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Springbok, Ref No: 20/25/NC/SPR (X1 Post)
Schwizer Reneke Magistrate court (Incumbent to be place in Kgomotso
Magistrate Court Ref No: 25/VA18/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor Degree in Public Administration /
Public Management or equivalent; 3 years administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Knowledge
of Financial Management (Vote and Trust Account); Departmental Financial
Instructions, BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and competencies: People
Management; Computer Literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resources of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning process; Manage the Criminal and
Civil Court Administration Section and other sections related to Family Court
and Supply Chain; Manage Third Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office;
32
Co-ordinate, Manage and administer support services to Case Flow
Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms NM Dywili at 073 775 0709
Northern Cape: Ms S. Segopa Tel No: (053) 8021300
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi at Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Direct your application to: The Director: HR, Private Bag X20578;
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered at 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. Note: Applicants who wish to post their application forms
are encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current postal service
challenges. Interested applicants must submit their applications for
employment to https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the
address specified in each post.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 25/36 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 22/25/NC/UPT
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Upington
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12; National Diploma: Legal Interpreting (NQF level 5) or
any other relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 5; 5 years of practical
experience as a Court Interpreter with minimum two (2) years supervisory
experience; Proficiency English; Proficiency in two (2) or more indigenous
languages (Afrikaans, SeTswana and IsiXhosa); A valid driver’s licence. Skills
and competencies: Communication skills; Listening skills; Interpersonal skills;
Time management; Computer literacy; Analytical thinking; Problem solving;
Planning and organizing; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure; Art of
interpreting.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage and supervise interpreters; Render
interpreting services; Translate legal documents and exhibits; Develop
terminology; Assist with the reconstruction of court records; Attend to personnel
administrative aspects; Provide effective people management; Procure
Foreign Language Interpreters and Casual Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Mr. O. Oliphant Tel No: (054) 3375301
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X6106,
Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings, (Magistrates
Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301. Note: Applicants
who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize courier
services in light of the current postal service challenges. Interested applicants
must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified.
POST 25/37 : COURT INTERMEDIARY REF NO: 25/VA17/NW (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Taung and Potchefstroom Magistrate
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Bachelor Degree/ National Diploma academic qualification in one
of the following fields; Teaching, Social Work/ Family Counselling, Child Care
and youth development, Paediatrics, Psychiatry, Clinical counselling,
Educational Psychologist; Applicants must be duly registered with the relevant
professional/ scientific organization/body in their field of specialization;
Minimum of three years working experience in the applicable field; Experience
in working with different types of disabilities, exposure to court procedure, court
etiquette, legal terms and terminology and functions of courts will be added
advantages; Knowledge of the relevant legal and regulatory framework
33
(Constitution of RSA, 1996; Criminal Procedure Act, 1977 (Act No 51 of 1977),
particularly sections 153, 158 and 170A of the Act; Criminal Law (Sexual
Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007);
Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005); Domestic Violence Act (Act No 116
of 1998). A valid driver’s license. Proficiency in the following languages:
Setswana, Afrikaans, English, isiZulu, isiXhosa, Sepedi, Sesotho, Tsonga and
Venda; Knowledge of any foreign languages will be an added advantage. Skills
and competencies: Communication and empathetic listening skills (with
children, persons with mental disabilities and other traumatized witnesses),
Trauma and basic counselling skills; Interpersonal skills; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Administrative skills; Computer literacy (Ms Word,
PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel); problem-solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide intermediary services to children, persons
with mental disabilities and other traumatized witnesses; Provide specialized
child language and disability services; Maintain intermediary room by ensuring
that the equipment of the private testifying room is always in good order;
Provide support services to witnesses and make appropriate referrals, where
necessary; Render administration support services in court; Assist children to
testify with the aid of anatomically-detailed dolls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/38 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP3-LP4) REF NO: 25/VA10/NW (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R377 523 – R1 032 906 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Attorney NW: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney;
At least 2 years appropriate post qualification Admission/litigation experience;
A valid driver’s license. Skills and competencies: Computer literacy; Legal
research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Strategic
and conceptual orientation; Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts,
Magistrate Courts, Labour Courts, Land Claims Courts and CCMA; Draft
and/or settle all types of agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render
legal opinions and advice; Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-
departmental arbitration and debt collection.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng, or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a current certificate of good
standing from the relevant law Society, along with a service record.
POST 25/39 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER; REF NO: 25/15/FS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and ten-years practical experience in court interpreting
or National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF 5 or any other relevant tertiary
qualification at NQF 5 and Minimum of three years practical experience in court
interpreting; Language Proficiency: English, IsiXhosa, Afrikaans and Sesotho.
A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Skills and competences:
Good communication skills, Listening, Interpersonal relation Problem solving;
Planning and organising; Analytical thinking skills; Time management,
Confidentiality, Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court
and Quasi Proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of Magistrate /Prosecutors; Make arrangements for foreign
34
language interpreters in consultation with the prosecutors; Perform specific line
and administrative support functions; Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise
Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800/073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver to: No 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein, or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/40 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 25/VA14/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Kgomotso Magistrate Court (Incumbent will be stationed in Christiana
Magistrate Court)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification; relevant administrative
experience and in family law matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act
99 of 1998); A valid driver’s license. Skills and competences: Computer literacy
(MS Office); Numeracy skills; Communication skills (verbal and written); Ability
to work with the public in a professional and empathetic manner; Explain legal
terminology and processes in simple language; Time management; Facilitation
skills; Innovation and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve maintenance summons, subpoenas, warrants
and garnishee orders for District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of persons; Give testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng, or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/41 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Welkom Ref No: 25/35/FS
Magistrate’s Office, Welkom Ref No: 25/14/FS
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant Legislation. Skills and competences: Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and outlook); Communication skills (verbal and
written); Interpersonal relations; Problem solving skills. Ability to work under
pressure and work dependently; Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervision and render general clerical support
services; Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical support within the
component; Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support
services within the component; Supervise and provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800/073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X 20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver it at 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein, or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 25/42 : FAMILY LAW ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Welkom Ref No: 25/34/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: 25/37/FS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years qualification in a Legal field and/or equivalent legal
qualification; knowledge in the functions of the Office of the Family Advocate,
knowledge and application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain
Divorce Matters Act, Children’s act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence
35
Act, (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction). Skills
and Competences: Communication skills (written and verbal); Computer
literacy (MS Office); Mediation skills; Attention to detail; Conduct legal
research; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct screening interviews and parental
responsibilities and rights information sessions, Assist members of the public
with the completion of forms and queries, Assist the Family Advocate in
conducting customer satisfaction surveys and community outreach projects;
Support the Family Advocate with regards to matters on the court roll; Receive
and screen correspondence and draft responses on behalf of the Family
Advocate; Conduct mediations in disputes regarding Parental Responsibilities
and Rights.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800/073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X 20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver it at No 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein, or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 25/43 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR3-MR5) REF NO: 25/VA16/NW
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Taung Magistrate Court
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or a four 4 year recognised legal qualification; At least 2 years’
post qualification legal experience; Extensive knowledge of the maintenance
system and family law matters; Knowledge of Maintenance Act (Act 99/1998);
Understanding of all services and procedure in the area of Maintenance and
other areas; Proficiency in the following languages; Setswana and Afrikaans; A
valid driver’s licence. Skills and competencies: Good communication skills
(verbal and written); Computer literacy (MS Office); Numeracy skills;
Facilitation and mediation skills; Litigation skills; Legal terminology and process
in simple language skills; Good interpersonal relations; Innovative and work
under pressurized environment.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage duties or functions of a Maintenance Officer
in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial information for the purposes
of maintenance enquiries; Guide maintenance investigators in the performance
of their functions; Appear in the Maintenance Court and conduct proceedings
in terms of the Maintenance Act; Implement Bench Orders. Provide effective
people management to the Family Law Section and Maintenance Investigator.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mahikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/44 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR1-MR5) REF NO: 21/25/NC/GAL
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Galeshewe Magistrate Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Appropriate
post qualification legal experience. Knowledge of maintenance system,
Maintenance Act and family law matters; Understanding of all services and
procedures in the area of Maintenance; Proficiency in at least two official
languages; A valid driver’s licence. Skills and competencies: Computer literacy
(MS Office); Good communication skills (verbal and written); Numeracy skills;
Good interpersonal relations; Problem solving skills; Report writing and time
management skills; Accuracy and attention to details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers, duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for Maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance investigators in the
performance of their functions; Implement Bench orders; Provide reports and
compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R. Motlekar Tel No: (053) 802 1300
36
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings,
(Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
Note: Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to
utilize courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
POST 25/45 : ESTATE CONTROLLER (EC 1 – 4) REF NO: 25/39/FS
SALARY : R252 855 – R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree or recognized four-year legal qualification. Skills and
competencies: Legal research and drafting; Case flow management; Estate
duties; Trust; Dispute resolution; Communication skills (verbal and written);
Problem solving; Customer focus; Attention to detail; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer deceased and Insolvent Estates,
Curatorship, Trusts and all aspects related to the administration thereof;
Determine and assess estate duties in terms of the Estate Duties Act; Conduct
research and draft legal documents; Render administrative function of the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili at (073) 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to: The Director: HR, Private Bag X20578;
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered at 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/46 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK-CRT REF NO: 25/26/FS
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office, Frankfort
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and competencies: Computer
literacy; Knowledge of document management and filing; Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Good interpersonal skills; Ability to work under
pressure and to solve problems; Customer service.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Prepare recordings of court proceedings; Render
clerical and administrative functions; file/store and ensure safekeeping of court
documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili at 073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to: The Director: HR, Private Bag X20578;
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand delivered at 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 25/47 : COURT INTERPRETER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: 25/ 17/FS (X2 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Winburg Ref No: 25/ 16 /FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Koffiefontein Ref No: 25/18/FS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and
one or more indigenous languages; Language Proficiency: Bloemfontein:
English, Sesotho, IsiXhosa and Afrikaans; Winburg: English, Sesotho,
IsiXhosa and Afrikaans; Koffiefontein: English, Sesotho, IsiXhosa and
Afrikaans. Skills and competences: Good communication skills; Listening;
Interpersonal relations; Problem solving; Planning and organising; Analytical
thinking skills; Time management. Confidentiality and ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
37
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800/ 073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver at No 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein, OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 25/48 : COURT INTERPRETER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Hopetown Magistrate Office Ref No: 12/25/NC/HPT
Kudumane Magistrate Office Ref No: 13/25/NC/KUD
Fraserburg Magistrate Office Ref No: 14/25/NC/FRA
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and
one or more indigenous languages; Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills; Listening skills; Interpersonal skills; Time management;
Computer literacy; Analytical thinking; Problem solving; Planning and
organizing; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Fritz Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings,
(Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301.
Note: Applicants who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to
utilize courier services in light of the current postal service challenges.
Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
POST 25/49 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X27 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office: Odendaalsrus Ref No: 25/20/FS (X3 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: 25/ 21/FS (X2 Posta)
Magistrate’s Office: Kroonstad Ref No: 25/22/FS (X4 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Parys Ref No: 25/23/FS (X2 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Jacobsdal Ref No: 25/24/FS (X2 Posts)
Magistrate’s Office: Smithfield Ref No: 25/27/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Botshabelo Ref No: 25/28 /FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Bothaville Ref No: 25/29/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Fauresmith Ref No: 25/ 30/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Boshof Ref No: 25/31/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Petrusburg Ref No: 25/32/FS (X1 Post)
Hartswater Magistrate Office Ref No: 03/25/NC/HAR (X1 Post)
Phillipstown Magistrate Office Ref No: 04/25/NC/PHIL (X1 Post)
Upington Magistrate Office Ref No: 05/25/NC/UPT (X1 Post)
Calvinia Magistrate Office Ref No: 06/25/NC/CAL (X1 Post)
Port Nolloth Magistrate Office Ref No: 07/25/NC/PORT (X1 Post)
Galeshewe Magistrate Office Ref No: 08/25/NC/GAL (X1 Post)
Kimberley Magistrate Office Ref No: 23/25/NC/KIM (X1 Post)
Ditsobotla Magistrate Court Ref No: 25/VA15/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and competencies: Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literacy (MS Office);
Administrative and Organizational skills; Ability to work under pressure; Good
interpersonal relations; Customer service; Document management and filing
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
38
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili Tel No: (051) 407 1800
Northern Cape: Mr N.Leshage Tel No: (053) 802 1300
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi at Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource,
Private Bag X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver at No 108 St Andrew
Street, Bloemfontein OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. Note: Applicants who wish to post their application forms
are encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current postal service
challenges. Interested applicants must submit their applications for
employment to https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the
address specified in each post.
: North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number
39
ANNEXURE F
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in the selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response e-
mail addresses Applications: Vaal (Benoni) e mail: APTVAL26@npa.gov.za
Johannesburg e mail: APTJHB26@npa.gov.za
Randburg e mail: APTRAN26@npa.gon.za
Bloemfontein e mail: APTBFN26@npa.gov.za
Welkom e mail: APTWEL26@npa.gov.za
Ntuzuma e mail: APTNTU26@npa.gov.za
Kimberley e mail: APTKIM26@npa.gov.za
Klerksdorp e mail: APTKLE26@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e mail: APTMTH26@npa.gov.za
Bellville e mail: APTBEL26@npa.gov.za
Polokwane e mail: APTPLK26@npa.gov.za
West Rand (Protea) e mail: APTWRP26@npa.gov.za
Modimolle e mail: APTMOD26@npa.gov.za
Witbank (Evander) e mail: APTWIT26@npa.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 04 August 2025
NOTE : Applicants must submit applications on the most recent Z83 form, which can
be obtained on the website of any Public Service Department or on the DPSA
website link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. The Z83 must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (describe details of previous legal
experience). Failure to submit applications in the prescribed manner, will result
in your application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents inclusive of a copy of Academic Record for final year LLB students
on or before the day of the interview, following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by SAQA. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA. If a handwritten Z83 is submitted it must be
completed in BLOCK LETTERS. Where the Z83 is not completed as prescribed
your application will be disqualified. Applicants must apply to only one (1)
centre. Should an application be submitted to more than one (1) centre the
applicant will be disqualified from the process. All applications must reach the
NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays.
Applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic
Response Handling System. Applications submitted in any other way other
than the published e-mail address will be treated as invalid. Please do not
contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your application to enquire if
your application has been received. If you have not received an
acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the closing date, only then
may you contact the NPA through the enquiries person listed in the advert. The
NPA reserves the right not to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from
us within six (6) months from the closing date of the advert, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to
a security clearance of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be
provisional, pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken
on the day of the interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants
may be accessed as part of the verification process. Applicants are advised
that as from 1 January 2021 a new Z83 application form is in use. The new
application for employment form (Z83) can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect (old) application for employment (Z83), it will not
be considered. NB! Applicants who are successful must please note that the
NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs.
40
TRAINING PROGRAM 2026/2027
OTHER POST
POST 25/50 : ASPIRANT PROSECUTOR TRAINING
National Prosecutions Service
(12 months training program)
SALARY : R252 855 – R292 596 per annum (LP-1 to LP-2)
CENTRE : Aspirants are to be appointed
Vaal (Benoni) Ref No: APTVAL26
Johannesburg Ref No: APTJHB26
Randburg Ref No: APTRAN26
Bloemfontein Ref No: APTBFN26
Welkom Ref No: APTWEL26
Ntuzuma Ref No: APTNTU26
Kimberley Ref No: APTKIM26
Klerksdorp Ref No: APTKLE26
Mthatha Ref No: APTMTH26
Bellville Ref No: APTBEL26
Polokwane Ref No: APTPLK26
West Rand (Protea) Ref No: APTWRP26
Modimolle Ref No: APTMOD26
Witbank (Evander) Ref No: APTWIT26
REQUIREMENTS : Complete LLB degree or equivalent foreign qualification supported by proof of
accreditation of qualifications from SAQA. Final year LLB students may apply,
provided that the LLB degree will be completed before the start date of the
programme. Preference will be given to applicants who have not participated
in any form of Practical Vocational Training for legal practitioners. Permanent
employees of the Department (DOJ&CD) and the NPA meeting the
requirements may also apply. Applicants must be South African. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility.
DUTIES : Successful candidates once appointed will undergo a 12-month training
programme. There will be formal assessments throughout the 12 months of the
training programme. All activities and assessments must be completed.
Continuous assessment will be conducted to determine competency for
appointment as a prosecutor. Conditions: When carrying out their duties,
Prosecutors are always required to comply with the Code of Conduct and
observe Policy Directives as determined and issued by the National Director of
Public Prosecutions. A written contract between the National Prosecuting
Authority and the Aspirant Prosecutor outlining the conditions of service shall
be entered into and such a contract will be valid and binding between the
parties. An entry examination will be written which will form part of the selection
process and only candidates successful in the examination based on the
criteria decided will be allowed to the next level of the selection process.
Aspirant Prosecutors who successfully completed the programme may not be
placed permanently or on contract as District Court Prosecutors within the
centre/cluster or division where they were trained. Placement is at the
discretion of the NPA at any office in the country. Where an offer of permanent
placement against a vacant post is made after the training and is declined, it
will be regarded as a termination of contract employment.
ENQUIRIES : Pfanani Malova Tel No: (012) 845 6953
Gija Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 845 6944
Sharon Ntseo Tel No: (012) 845 6664
NOTE : It is anticipated that the program will commence on 1 March 2026. All
successful candidates must be available to accept the offer to commence with
the training programme at the start of the programme. No request to start later
than the commencement date will be entertained. A maximum of 100 Aspirants
will be appointed. An updated entry examination study guide is available on the
NPA Website.
41
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng: Johannesburg/Pretoria: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Mthatha: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag
X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent
5242, East London
Free State: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X20612,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High Court,
Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately, not be considered. Should you be in possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship
holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin
(when shortlisted, all non-SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof
of South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial
checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and
employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
42
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION (JSC) REF
NO: 2025/181/OCJ
(One-Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate. An LLB degree or a four-year recognized legal qualification.
A valid driver’s license. A minimum three (3) years’ relevant legal experience in
the judicial environment. An understanding of the functioning of Commissions
or Tribunals would be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Report
writing and editing skills, legal research and analytical skills, Project
Management, Planning and organizing, Accuracy and paying attention to
detail, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Excellent interpersonal skills,
Ability to work under pressure and independently. Problem solving skills,
Administration skills. Willingness to travel. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering support to the Judicial Service Commission and its Committees,
Receiving and attending to complaints against Judges, maintaining a register
of complaints lodged against Judges, Consulting with the State Attorney and
Advocates on Litigation matters Maintaining of stakeholder relations with
referral institutions Provide research and legal assistance to the Unit, Perform
any ad hoc tasks within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Songca Tel No: (010) 493 2575
HR enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/181/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 25/52 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/182/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mthatha High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. National Diploma in Public Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Public Management/ equivalent qualification at (NQF level 6). A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience/supervisory level. A Valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word, Power Point, Excel and
Outlook), Good communication skills (written and verbal), Problem solving
skills, Report writing skills, Analytical skills, Administration skills, Planning and
organizing skills; Confidentiality, Team player, Flexible, Accuracy, attention to
detail and ability to work under pressure and independently.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Court; Administer travel accommodation
arrangements; Provide support to Facilities Management function; Provide
support to Fleet Management function; Supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical / HR Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/182/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
43
POST 25/53 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2025/184/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) or NQF Level 4 qualification, Computer literacy knowledge
of clerical duties and understanding of legal framework governing the public
service. Skills and competencies. Good communication skills (written and
verbal) Good interpersonal relations, customer service, interpersonal skills,
Problem solving skills. Customer service and attention to detail. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide administration support services Capture and update data from
available records into the required formats e.g. databases, table and
spreadsheet. Verify missing data and errors observed during data entry.
Review and validate all data from the records. Submit data and make regular
backups of data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and maintain records
and files. Record and file documents Provide support the verification personnel
with availing data sources required and files Collect applications for default
judgment and taxation from General Office. Provide information to responsible
components. Keep and maintain records and files in an organized manner. Sort
and distribute incoming data to be captured equally.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/184/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 25/54 : USHER MESSENGER REF NO: 2025/185/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Division of the High Court: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ABET (NQF level 2). No experience required. A valid driver’s license.
A minimum of one (1) year relevant exposure to a court environment will be an
added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
legislations. Planning and organizing skills, Good interpersonal skills, Time
management skills, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication
skills; Attention to detail, Flexible, Accuracy, Confidence and Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Escorting of Judges’ to the Court rooms. Rendering of administrative support
functions to the Judges’ and the Court room crew. Maintenance of Courtrooms’
and court room records. Facilitation of the smooth- running of the Court rooms
and the collection and distribution of post/parcels, files and other documents
and photocopying of official documents. Be present in Court during the session.
Making copies of Court rolls and circulate according to distribution list. General
messenger duties. Assist in general office when required.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Ms DSJ Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4573
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/185/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
44
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street. In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses:
For: Deputy Director-General: Community Development- e-
recruit.DDGCD@dsd.gov.za
Graphic Designer Specialist- e-recruit.GDS@dsd.gov.za
Occupational Health and Safety Officer- e-recruit.OHSO@dsd.gov.za
NPO Help Desk- e-recruit.NHD@dsd.gov.za
Finance Clerk- e-recruit.FC@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr S Boshielo.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
45
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
E1/2025
Branch: Community Development
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Developmental
Studies or Social Sciences or Economic Development or Community
Development as recognized by SAQA PLUS a minimum of 8 years’ experience
at senior management level. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa.
Knowledge of i) Reconstruction and Development Programme, ii) the Growth
Path, iii) Municipal System Act, iv) Rural Development Act, v) Population and
Development Policy, vi) the relevant Public Service Legislative frameworks, vii)
PFMA and Treasury Regulations, public management and administration
principles. Knowledge and understanding of policy development. Knowledge
and understanding of the NPO framework, and other NPO related Bills and
Policies. White Paper on Transformation of Public Service. Knowledge of
Social Service Professions Act, 110 of 1978, as amended. Understanding of
the management of strategic plans, business plans and budgeting. Knowledge
of the Acts that governing the implementation of social development services
and programmes. Understanding and knowledge of community development
related Legislations, Policies, Frameworks and norms and standards.
Knowledge and understanding of involvement in the international structures/
stakeholders (UN Convention and AU). Knowledge of Kings IV Report for
Corporate Governance. Knowledge of National Development Plan (NDP).
Knowledge of National Development Agency Act. Competencies needed:
Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project management.
Financial Management. Policy Analysis and Development. Information and
Knowledge Management. Communication. Service Delivery Innovations.
Problem Solving and Change Management. People management and
empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Stakeholder
Management. Presentation, Facilitation and Coordination. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Independent thinking.
Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee, manage and report on the development of sustainable community
development legislative frameworks, policies, strategies, operational
frameworks, guidelines and effective programmes. Oversee, manage and
report on the implementation of sustainable community programmes aimed at
community mobilization, sustainable livelihood, poverty alleviation and
reduction programmes to empower poor communities, families and individuals.
Oversee, manage and report on coordination, effective and efficient non-profit
organization (NPOs) registration, compliance, operations, coordination and
monitoring systems, processes and application. Oversee, manage and report
on the budget, human resources and performance of the branch in line with the
set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FP Netshipale Tel No: (012) 312-7662/7556
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/56 : GRAPHIC DESIGNER SPECIALIST REF NO: D1/B/2025)
Chief Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification at NQF level 6 in Graphic Design with a minimum of 3-
5 years’ experience in Graphic Design. Knowledge and understanding of
Multimedia will be an added advantage. Knowledge of departmental
46
communication policies and processes. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations and PFMA. Knowledge of
Government branding guidelines. Knowledge of production management.
Knowledge of design software and photo edit. Knowledge and understanding
of creatives. Knowledge of the printing environment. Understanding application
processes for International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and Annual Report
Number (RP). Competencies needed: Creative. Research engines. Report
writing skills. Computer literacy. Advanced Communication (verbal and written)
skills. Decision making skills. Motivational skills. Project management skills.
Self-management. Progress monitoring and reporting skills. Analytical and
critical thinking skills. Problem solving and analysis skills. Attributes: Good
Interpersonal relationships. Friendly and assertive. Work ethics. Time
management. Ability to work under pressure. Reliable. Independent thinker.
Integrity. Adaptability. Trustworthiness.
DUTIES : Conduct research, design concepts, and graphics for communication and
marking products. Design promotional and publicity materials in line with
Government Branding Guidelines. Provide advice on the application of
government corporate identity and branding. Administer effective and efficient
storage of creatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Tang Tel No: (012) 312-7939
POST 25/57 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: D1/C/2025
Chief Directorate: Security Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification at NQF level 6 in Safety Management or Environment
Health plus 2-3 years relevant experience in Occupational Health and Safety
related field. Knowledge of the Constitution of South African as well as the
relevant Public Service Acts and Regulations. Knowledge of PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of
1993 and regulations. Knowledge of Disaster Management Act. Knowledge of
SHERQ Management Policy for Public Service. Knowledge of Compensation
for Occupational Diseases and Injuries Act, 1993. Knowledge of National
Health Act. Knowledge of Hazardous Substances Act. Knowledge of National
Building Regulations and Building Standards Act. Knowledge of National
Environment Management Act. Competencies needed: Financial planning
skills. Problem solving skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Analytical skills.
Interpersonal relations skills. Attributes: Ability to work in a team and
independently. Ability to work under pressure. Diplomatic. Assertive. Integrity.
Initiative. Consistent. Compliant. Honesty. Adaptive. Good interpersonal
relationship. Accuracy and thoroughness commitment.
DUTIES : Develop, maintain and review Occupational Health and Safety policies,
programmes and guidelines in line with the legislation. Conduct Occupational
Health and Safety risk assessment in the department. Identify, control and
monitor environmental hazards in the workplace.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Nxumalo Tel No: (012) 312 7604
POST 25/58 : NPO HELP DESK REF NO: D1/D/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and
Regulations. Knowledge of the NPO services provision. Knowledge of relevant
NPO Act, Regulations, Policies and Guidelines. Knowledge of Companies Act
and Trust Properties Controls Act. Knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele
Principles. Knowledge and understanding of POPIA and PAIA. Knowledge of
NPO Codes of Good Practices. Competencies needed: Understanding and
ability to speak at least two official languages. Computer literacy. Time
management skills. Communication skills (verbal and written) skills. Problem-
solving skills. Listening skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Report
writing skills. Attributes: Patience. Empathy. Accuracy. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Friendly and trustworthy.
Confidentiality.
47
DUTIES : Provide Non-Profit Organisations information, guidance, feedback and
support. Handle Non-Profit Organisations queries and complaints. Provide off-
site Non-Profit Organisations services during outreach programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Nemutanzhela Tel No: (012) 312 7692
POST 25/59 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: D1/E/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and
collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service
financial legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA,
PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating
systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Competencies needed: Job knowledge.
Problem-solving skills. Communication (verbal and written) skills. Computer
literary. Planning and organizing skills. Aptitude of figures. Basic numeracy
skills. Analytical skills. Coordination skills. Attributes: Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Ability to work under pressure.
Systematic. Diplomatic. Assertive. Integrity. Initiative. Consistent. Compliant.
Honesty. Adaptive. Good interpersonal relationship. Accuracy and
thoroughness. Commitment.
DUTIES : Maintain logical pre-numbered system according to batch numbers to facilitate
efficient retrieval and disposal of records. Maintain the filing system in the
storeroom in line with the National Archives and Records Service Act. Receive
and record payment and journal batches for safekeeping. Maintain proper
registers of incoming and outgoing documentation and make follow-ups on
missing batches. Perform monthly reconciliations of batches processed for
payments against payment batches received and follow-up. Perform other
administrative duties within the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Segakweng Tel No: (012) 312 7246
48
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref no. must
appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application may not
be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources Management,
Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic Campus, corner of
Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 04 August 2025
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise.
Background verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part
of the selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASIA BILATERAL RELATIONS REF NO: TRADE-034
Overview: To conduct research and provide advice on the preparation and
execution of trade and investment negotiations and policies in Asia region.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7, as recognized by SAQA, in Economics/
International Relations or International Law with an Economics focus. 3 to 5
years of relevant managerial experience in international Relations or
International Law in a public or private sector environment. Key Requirements:
Proven ability to carry out economic research and analysis, including
compilation of basic trade data and trends. Experience developing and
reviewing international trade strategies and policies. Track record in
negotiating bilateral trade agreements and preparing negotiation briefs. Strong
stakeholder management skills, including liaison with foreign missions and
interdepartmental forums. Programme management experience, with the
ability to develop action plans and monitor the implementation of the Bi-national
Commission programmes. Supervisory and financial management experience,
including budget monitoring and performance management of staff. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills, with the ability to draft technical
reports, position papers, and speeches. Proficiency in project management
and the Microsoft Office Package. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations,
the Public Finance Management Act, PFMA, and Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Policy Foreign Trade Research & Analysis: Facilitate the compilation and
analysis of basic economic data, trends and developments in the Asia region.
Provide detailed technical and legal recommendations based on solid research
and analysis. Develop and review international trade strategies and policies.
Monitor the implementation of policies and strategies. Identify trade and
investment opportunities and finalise country briefings to quality standards.
Stakeholder Management: Liaise with foreign trade missions and internal
stakeholders on bilateral trade and investment issues. Advise on negotiation
agreements and their potential impact on South Africa’s economic interests.
Serve as a conduit between South Africa and negotiating partners, ensuring
follow-up on intergovernmental meeting outcomes. Negotiations: Develop and
recommend negotiating positions through data and information analysis.
Conduct consultations to assess the costs and benefits of proposed Free Trade
49
Agreements. Compile briefs on regional business developments, legal, and
regulatory changes. Monitor developments in law and regulation to assess
implications for South Africa. Bi-national Commission Programme: Facilitate
the development of the Bi-national Commission programme and associated
action plans. Monitor and report on the implementation of the programme.
Participate in interdepartmental meetings and prepare progress reports ahead
of Commission sessions. Communicate the bilateral trade strategy to relevant
partners. Sub-Directorate Management: Manage collation of inputs for
quarterly and annual reports, business plans, and targets. Monitor financial
resources and assets of the unit. Supervise and develop sub-directorate staff,
ensuring performance management processes are completed on time Oversee
reporting on financial and operational risk
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809 / D
Mathavha Tel No: (012) 394 3864 / K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563
POST 25/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASIA BILATERAL RELATIONS REF NO: TRADE-
036
Overview: To conduct research and provide advice on the preparation and
execution of trade and investment negotiations and policies in Asia region
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognized by SAQA, in Economics/
International Relations or International Law with an Economics focus. 3 to 5
years of relevant experience in International Relations or International Law in
a public or private sector environment. key requirements: Project Management,
Strategic Management and Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Package).
Experience compiling and analysing economic data, trends and developments
in Asia. Experience drafting country briefings, position papers and technical
reports. Experience liaising with foreign trade missions and government
departments. Experience coordinating stakeholder forums and
interdepartmental meetings. Experience providing inputs to trade negotiations
through research and analysis. Experience identifying trade and investment
opportunities and monitoring policy implementation. Experience compiling
progress and statistical reports.
DUTIES : Foreign Trade Research & Analysis: Provide inputs on compilation and
analysis of basic economic data and trends. Provide input to the development
and review of international trade strategies and policies. Update economic
statistics quarterly and identify trade opportunities. Draft and update country
briefings and respond to ad-hoc research enquiries. Stakeholder Management:
Liaise with foreign trade missions and government departments. Maintain
relations with foreign governments and internal stakeholders. Participate in
stakeholder meetings and prepare meeting reports. Follow up on
intergovernmental meeting outcomes. Negotiations: Provide inputs to
negotiating positions through research and analysis. Convene consultation
meetings for trade negotiations. Provide inputs on briefs and bulletins on
regional business and regulatory developments. Bi-national Commission
Programme: Identify and coordinate stakeholders for the Bi-national
Commission working group. Provide inputs to action plans and progress
reports. Convene and attend working group meetings and implement project
plans.
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809 / D
Mathavha Tel No: (012) 394 3864 / K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563
POST 25/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SECRETARIAT REF NO: ODG-022
Overview: To provide corporate secretariat and administrative support to the
Department’s Executive Board (Exbo) and its sub-committees, ensuring
compliance with good governance and King IV principles.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 6, as recognized by SAQA, in Law / Public
Administration / Secretariat. 3 to 5 years of relevant experience in providing
secretariat functions in the public/private sectors. Key Requirements:
Chartered Institute of Secretaries (CIS) certification. A Chartered Institute of
Secretaries (CIS) certification will serve as an added advantage. In-depth
knowledge of Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Package). Excellent
50
Planning and organising skills. Excellent verbal and written communication
skills. Understanding of PFMA, Public Service Act, and Regulations, Treasury
Regulations. Excellent interpersonal skills. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Meeting Preparation and Logistics: Coordinate venues, documentation,
presenters, and scheduling for Exbo and subcommittee meetings. Draft and
circulate agendas, collate and distribute document packs. Secretariat Services
during and after meetings: Provide in-meeting support including attendance
registers, disclosures, agenda and presentation management. Take minutes
and circulate minutes to members and submit them for approval within the
required timelines. Maintain contact lists, develop a corporate calendar and
manage digital record keeping. Provide extracts of minutes and update SOPs
for secretariat processes. Governance Monitoring and Reporting: Conduct
annual assessments and reviews of TORs and workplans. Compile self-
assessment reports and implement improvements.
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809 / D
Mathavha Tel No: (012) 394 3864 / K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563
51
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/63 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: LIMPOPO-OLIFANTS CATCHMENT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY (LOCMA) REF NO: LOCMA 04
Five-year performance-based contract
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year Degree at NQF 7 in Science/Engineering or equivalent relevant
qualification. Qualification/certificate in leadership or Executive Development
Programme will be an added advantage. Member of any relevant professional
body either in administration/science/engineering or any related profession.
Facilitation, communication, senior management program, stakeholder
engagement/ public participation process courses, water resources
management. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience in the Water Sector
at a Senior Management level. Knowledge of Integrated Water Resources
Management, National Water Management Act, Public service administration
processes, High-level Financial Management and Corporate Governance.
Skills required Organisational Management, Conflict Resolution, Strategic
View, People Management & Leadership, Financial Management and
Planning. Attitudes required, openness and transparency. Open to take advice
and to learn from colleagues. Objectivity in the management of the Agency’s
affairs. May be required to travel extensively. May be required to plan and travel
at short notice. May be subjected to extended working hours. May be required
to provide information to the Governing Board and respond to Ministerial
queries at any given time.
DUTIES : Facilitate and ensure the development/review of the Limpopo-Olifants
Catchment Management Agency (LOCMA). Oversee the development and
implementation of a 5-year strategic plan of the LOCMA. Oversee the
52
development and implementation of the LOCMA’s Annual Performance Plan.
Oversee the submission and reporting of Annual Reports and Quarterly
Reports. Prepare and present the LOCMA reports to the Department of Water
and Sanitation, Parliamentary Committees, and the Governing Board.
Coordinate the development of a comprehensive Corporate Plan. Oversee the
performance and service delivery of the LOCMA. Oversee the coordination of
the Governing Board, Risk-, EXCO- and Audit Committee sittings. Approval of
agendas, minutes, and reports of the committees before distribution. Oversee
the work of the committees. Recommendation of internal & external policies &
procedures documentation to the Governing Board and LOCMA committees
for approval. Oversee the effective coordination of stakeholder participation
and empowerment strategies. Signing and approval of Memoranda of
Agreement (MOA’s) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOU’s) related to
external parties. Approval of the LOCMA contract of employment for
candidates. Oversee the championing of transformation of water resource
management within the Limpopo-Olifants Water Management Area. Will be
responsible for the appointment of bid committees, approval of bid
specifications, review recommendations from the bid adjudication committees
and approve for the appointment of successful bidders in line with the LOCMA
delegation of authority. Oversee the effective implementation and maintenance
of all administrative, financial, and technical support systems for the delivery of
water resource management services. Establish and maintain sound project
management systems. Ensure that the LOCMA finance and procurement
processes are managed in line with the PFMA, PPPFA, National Treasury and
other relevant regulations. Oversee the proper management of the LOCMA
assets and physical resources. Supervise and manage executives and all
direct reporting employees. Sign performance agreements and review
performance of the executives and all the direct reporting employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Conrad Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 25/64 : DIRECTOR: CENTRAL OPERATIONS REF NO: 010825/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Chief Directorate: Water Resources Infrastructure Operations and
Maintenance
Directorate: Operations Central
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree at NQF level 7 qualification in the Engineering field of
Mechanical / Civil / Electrical Engineering or relevant. Five (5) years
managerial experience in engineering. Five (5) years’ experience at a middle /
senior managerial level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Knowledge of technical, civil, mechanical or electrical engineering. Knowledge
of the water sector. Understanding and application of human resource
components. Understanding and application of engineering principles.
Strategic capability and leadership. Understanding finance, change and
knowledge management. Service delivery and innovation. Problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Excellent communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability
and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : The development and implementation of policies and strategic objectives for
the cluster. Develop progress reports on the achievement of objectives and
expenditure. Manage the operations of water resource infrastructure for the
cluster. Develops, reviewed and updated bulk water supply agreements.
Rehabilitation and refurbishment of water resource infrastructure. Manages the
canals and civil engineering rehabilitation of infrastructure. Ensure that risk for
the operations in the cluster is managed. Manage asset management for both
movable and non-moveable assets. Ensure that the bulk supply of raw water
53
to institutions is in accordance with the agreement signed by relevant parties.
Resource accountability and human resource management. Transformation,
financial management and accountability. Accounting to departmental
bargaining adjudication committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ND Ndumo Tel No: (012) 741 7220
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POST
POST 25/65 : CHIEF DEVELOPMENT EXPERT: CONSUMER PROTECTION REF NO:
010825/02
Branch: Regulation Compliance and Enforcement
Cd: Economic and Social Regulation
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Social Science / Law / Financial Management
/ Economic Sciences. A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Financial
Management / Economic Sciences/ Social Sciences / Basic understanding of
law. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge and
understanding of water sector legislations, policies, practices, and procedures.
Practical knowledge of financial models. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA),
Treasury Regulations, GRAP guidelines and policies. Knowledge of accounting
practice. Problem solving and analysis. Good people management,
environment and change management interventions. Knowledge management
skills. Service delivery analysis. Client orientation and customer focus skills.
Good communication skills both verbal and written. Conflict management,
accountability, and good ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Ensure that stakeholders are empowered, and ensure functional relationships
between stakeholders in the water sector. Ensure adequate consultation of
stakeholders in tariff consultation processes. Ensure affordable tariffs
determination in the value chain. Perform any other task delegated by
Management and rendering of general management of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moshidi Tel No: (012) 336 6614
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
54
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the positions below, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, Females and People
with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. For general enquiries please contact
Human Resources on 0833240044/ 0837924851. Only online applications will
be considered. Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for
employment, issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in
the New Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified copies of
qualifications, identity document and valid driver’s license (where
driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) not older than six (06)
months. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CASHIER COUNTER REF NO: REFS/023028
Branch: Operating Licensing
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 in Transport Management / Public Management / Administration
Management. 3-5 years’ proven experience in the public transport licensing or
public transport fields. Knowledge and skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and
procedures; relevant legislation which include the NLTA, the NLTA Amendment
Act and its Regulations, the PFMA and its regulations and Public Service
Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs.
Knowledge of GPG political and executive structures. Competency in
Customer relations, Stakeholder Relationship Management, Computer
utilisation, Financial Management, and Business Performance Management.
DUTIES : Manage the receipt and processing of payments/fess which include cheques
and electronic payments related to all operating licensing transactions in the
region. Manage the issuance of receipts generated by the licensing system for
all payments received. Maintain accurate records for all transactions. Verify
and account for all applications received by the cashiers from public transport
applicants. Ensure that daily reconciliation of payments received is finalised on
a daily basis, ensuring that it matches the recorded transactions. Manage the
safeguarding of all payments received. Ensure that the debit card merchant
copies are stored safely. Receive consolidated balance sheets and
consolidated merchant reports from the Senior Administrative Officer.
Reconcile and sign off the speed point batch reports with consolidated balance
sheets and merchant reports. Assist applicants with requirements and
information relating to application fees. Ensure adherence to procedures and
regulations for handling payments. Identify and report timeously any
irregularities that may occur in the collection of revenue. Ensure compliance to
the PFMA and its regulations. Provide accurate information within specified
timeframes as requested during auding cycles. Prepare weekly/monthly
55
reports on collected revenue to management. Manage personnel within the
cashier counter stream.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Mpateni Tel No: (011) 355 7252/ Ms. P Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 7175
POST 25/67 : ADMIN OFFICER: ISSUING AND COLLECTIONS COUNTER REF NO:
REFS/023029
Directorate: Operating Licensing
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 in Public Administration / Administration Management / Transport
Management. 1-2 years’ experience in the Public Transport management
environment. Knowledge and skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures;
relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, understanding of
expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs. Knowledge of GPG political
and executive structures. Customer management, Innovation / continuous
improvement, problem solving, analytical, negotiation, communication,
initiative and diversity awareness.
DUTIES : Account for all applications received from processing and cashier streams.
Verify if all documents are attached to the file. Verify and ensure that
applications forms are properly filled. Verify applicants’ data on the vehicle
documents and validity. Tracking of processed applications. Print Operating
Licenses. Account for the verification of applicant details and validate printed
operating licenses. Permits. log calls with NLTIS (National Land Transport
Information System) for both Minibus Taxi and Non-Minibus Taxi applications
for reduction or increasing capacity on the applications prior to issuing. Check
and verify applications and submit them to the Senior Admin Officer before
being signed off to the Provincial Regulatory Entity for signature of the
Operating Licensing. Record operating licenses to be distributed to
applications for collections. Provide feedback to applicants for collections.
Provide feedback to applicants on processed applications through the SMS
system. Consolidate the monthly portfolio of evidence (POE) that is signed
copies of permits/ operating licenses. Account for the hand-over of issued
operating licenses and documents received for collection. Account for the
verification of details by checking Proxy letters or ID copies of each person
collecting and proper record keeping of collected operating licenses. Distribute
Face Value documents to issues and conduct to issues and conduct stock
taking. Manage Human Resources and compile relevant reports for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Mpateni Tel No: (011) 355 7252/ Ms. P Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 7175
POST 25/68 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: REFS/023033 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Roads Maintenance and Fleet Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Sedibeng
REQUIRMENTS : ABET or equivalent qualification. Good communication skills (Verbal and
written). An ability to work under pressure and ability to work in a team.
Knowledge of work procedures in respect of working environment skills. Basic
numeracy and good communication skills.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: clean premises by providing gardening
services of routine nature, watering the garden, prune and trim flowers and
trees, mow the grass, remove weeds, and garden refuse, apply insecticides.
Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers, monitor and keep gardening equipment
and tools in good condition. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipment and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Ngcobo Tel No: (011) 355 7521/ Ms. P Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 7175
56
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road, Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the services system, please assess this site (eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 must be accompanied
by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted applicants will be
contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) besides the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
subjected security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail that are not collected from
the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Should you not hear from the
Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is
not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment
processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates.
Preferences: Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/69 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL FINANCIAL REPORTING REF NO:
KZNPT 25/32
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 Degree in Financial Accounting or Financial Management field. A
minimum of 3 years junior management experience in a financial Reporting
/accounting/management environment. A valid Driver’s License. People with
disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to
meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies:
Modified Cash Standards (MCS) GRAP – General Recognized Accounting
Principles IAS - IFRS PFMA – Public Finance Management Act Treasury
Regulations Other enabling legislation Department Accounting Frameworks
Computer literacy (Excel, Word, Power Point, email & internet) Communication
i.e. written and verbal Supervisory Project planning Financial management
Inter-personal relation Problem solving Report writing Presentation Influencing
Motivation Policy Analysis Driving Self-disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision Manage the human resources. Manage
the financial resources. Monitor the submission of annual financial statements.
Monitor the submission of Provincial Department interim financial statements
Monitor the submission of annual reports Monitor the submission of audit
reports, and management letters Analyse the audit reports and management
reports Monitor the timely submission and review of the month end procedures
certification by Provincial Departments Monitor the implementation of National
Treasury instruction notes by Departments Monitor and analyse the transfer of
Department Revenue and unspent funds to Provincial Revenue Fund Monitor
the implementation of National Treasury instruction notes by Departments
Monitor and analyse the transfer of Department Revenue and unspent funds
to Provincial Revenue Fund Monitor and verify the key accounts for Provincial
Departments. Provide on-site and telephonic support for client specific
requests. Ensure the provisioning of support in implementation of the
Accounting Standards, National Treasury and Provincial Treasury Guidelines,
and Accounting Frameworks Ensure the implementation of financial
management support programs where clients lack skills and capacity.
Preparation of the Revenue Fund annual financial statements and Accounting
57
Officer’s report. Preparation of consolidated financial statements of the
Province and the Accounting Officers Report. Review client’s templates for
data integrity Conversion of entity templates for consolidation.
DUTIES : Consolidate Annual Financial Statements for Provincial Departments. Provide
financial management support to Provincial Departments. Monitor the monthly
financial management reporting processes for Departments. Ensure the
submission of mandatory financial information within the province in terms of
submission dates. Manage the resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Singh Tel No: (033) 897 4421
POST 25/70 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL FINANCIAL REPORTING REF NO:
KZNPT 25/33
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Administration/Political Science/ Social
Science/ Development Studies or related field. A minimum of 3-5 years junior
management experience in Public Administration or a Public sector
management/ inter-governmental relations environment. A Valid Driver’s
license. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Public
Sector, including Local Government and Procedures. Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa 1996. Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations. Municipality Finance Management Act. KwaZulu-Natal Internal
Audit. KwaZulu-Natal Procurement Act and Regulations. KwaZulu-Natal Direct
Charges Act. Income Tax Act. Banking. Provincial Borrowing Powers Act.
Division of the Revenues Act. Adjustment Appropriation Act. Public Service Act
& Public Service Regulations. Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act.
Protocol Manual of South Africa. Labour relations. Employment Equity Act.
National Development plan. Protocol Manual of South Africa. Provincial Growth
and Development Plan. Community development, Social Facilitation. Strategic
Capability and leadership. Programme and Project Management. Organising.
Problem-solving and analytical. Research. Computer literacy. Time
management. Decision making. Inter-personal relations. Financial
Management. Change Management. Policy analysis and development.
Diplomacy. Conflict Management. Strategic Planning. Presentation.
DUTIES : Coordinate the department’s participation in structures and institution to
promote inter-governmental relations (IGR). Monitor compliance with the
resolutions of cooperative structures i.e. MinMEC, HoDs and Treasury in
Cabinet and Cabinet Clusters. Coordinate and maintain the relationships of the
various Stakeholders within IGR fora. Provide guidance and advice on
international engagement in line with existing protocols. Develop, implement,
and review strategies, policies, procedure manuals, guidelines and provide
advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Smith-Peterson Tel No: (033) 897 4556
POST 25/71 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: KZNPT 25/28
SALARY : R464 634 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR-5), OSD
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF level 7 or higher qualification in Law (LLB). At least 8 years' post
qualification experience in the provision of legal services. Admission as an
attorney or advocate with good standing with the Legal Practice Council will be
an added advantage. A valid Driver’s License. People with disabilities without
valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to meet work related
travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge And Competencies: Sound knowledge of
the South African Legal System; In-depth knowledge of Administrative Law and
Constitutional Law; Public Service Act; Public Finance Management Act;
Municipal Finance Management Act Public Service Regulations; Interpretation
of Statutes and Civil Procedure (Magistrate Court Practice & High Court
Practice) Legal Administration, Computer literacy, Conflict management,
Negotiation skills, Good verbal and written communication skills, Project
management, Legal Research Methods Ability to draft legal documents Good
interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills, Accuracy and attention to detail;
Presentation skills, Policy analysis, Research skills. Self-discipline.
DUTIES : Conduct research on specific cases as well as remain abreast with changes in
legislation that affect the department. Represent the department in dispute
resolution cases to ensure a fair outcome for the department. Draft legal advice
58
and/or opinions on specific cases to ensure that the department abides by and
complies with relevant legislation. Preparation of cases for litigation purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Gumede Tel No: (033) 897 4544
59
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Delivery by hand or courier service to Limpopo Provincial Treasury Registry at
46 Hans Van Rensburg Street, Polokwane,0699 or by post to Limpopo
Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X9486, Polokwane, 0700 or email applications
to MogofeME@treasury.limpopo.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16H00.
NOTE : The Member of the Executive Council for the Limpopo Provincial Treasury
hereby invites applications for candidates to be considered for appointment to
the Provincial Administration Audit Committees. The appointment contract
covers a continuous period of three years - 01 January 2026 to 31 December
2028, which may be extended at the discretion of the Provincial Treasury. The
Audit Committees operate in terms of the Public Finance Management Act (Act
1 of 1999 – PFMA) and applicable Treasury Regulations 3.1. and approved
Audit Committee Charter. Please note, as part of the appointment process,
qualification Suitability Checks will be conducted on Shortlisted /
Recommended Candidates. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have their
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Interested candidates are therefore invited to forward applications,
clearly indicating the area they are applying for, either as a Cluster Audit
Committee member or as the Central Audit Committee Chairperson)
accompanied by appropriate Curriculum Vitae (CV) and copies of identification
document and qualifications, in a clearly marked envelope. Candidates serving
on more than five (5) PFMA Compliant Institutions may not be considered for
appointment to serve on the Provincial Government Shared Audit Committee
Membership. We will acknowledge receipt of your CV and if you do not receive
acknowledgment within 3 working days, please follow-up with us on the
contacts provided to determine if your application was received. Kindly Note:
Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages
applications from women and persons with disabilities. Provincial Treasury
reserves the right to not fill all or some of the Audit Committee posts and / re-
advertise a post.
OTHER POST
POST 25/72 : LIMPOPO SHARED AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS (X17 POSTS)
Branch: Financial Governance
(Three years from 01 January 2026 to 31 December 2028)
SALARY : In line with Treasury Regulations Section 20.2.3.
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Candidates should have a minimum of three (3) years’ experience serving on
an oversight / governance structure, preferably in the public sector (Audit and
or Risk Committee or Board of Directors). Please note the province reserves
the right to appoint candidates without prior experience on oversight /
governance structures limited to candidates showing potential in line with the
requirement in this advert. Candidates must have a relevant Degree or
Equivalent and a Post Graduate qualification or Equivalent in at least one of
the following fields: Information Technology; Risk Management, Financial
Management, Audit, Internal Control, Health, Education, Agriculture,
Economics, Legal, Corporate Governance; Engineering and Built Environment.
Registration with the relevant qualification professional body may be required.
Candidates applying for the CAC Chairperson must have been a member of
the oversight / governance structure for a minimum of 5 years and Chaired an
Oversight structure for not less than 3 years. Familiarity with public sector
governance environment. A sense of integrity and strong ethical values. An
ability to act honestly and in good faith in the public interest. Clear
understanding of the mandate of public sector audit committees. Clear
understanding of public sector risk management practises. Independence and
objectivity. Leadership qualities. Professionalism, and willingness to exercise
due diligence and provide sound advice to the various Executive Authorities.
Clear understanding of the public sector accounting environment and
applicable reporting standards. Applications that are not compliant with the
above requirements will not be considered.
60
DUTIES : Their role is oversight over the following areas: - Risk management and internal
control environment. Effectiveness of internal audit – capacity, activities, plans
and reports. Evaluating the work of the Auditor General: Preparation of and
compliance with audit plans, Adherence to agreed timetables, Quality of audit
reports and management letter, Assess reasonableness of audit fees. Financial
reporting: Evaluate the accuracy, adequacy, timeliness, and reliability of
financial information. Assess compliance with applicable accounting standards,
and Adequacy of disclosed information. Consider and evaluate departments’
Annual Performance Plans and progress reports. Review departments’ legal
and regulatory compliance. Section 77 of the PFMA read in conjunction with
paragraph 3 of the Limpopo Provincial Government Audit Committee Charter
provides for two-tiered shared audit committees comprising of the Central Audit
Committee (CAC) and four Cluster Audit Committees. Each Cluster Audit
Committee is comprised of four members of which one would be a
Chairperson. The CAC is made up of an independent Chairperson and four
Cluster Chairpersons.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Mogofe Tel No: (015) 291 8574 / 082 813 8689
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to
apply. Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as advertised per the attached
“Annexure A”.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as
advertised. Applicants are encouraged to register and submit their applications
through the e-Recruitment website at
https://www.dsd.limpopo,gov,za/?q=node/12 however, hand-delivered
applications are acceptable and must be submitted on the new Z83 application
form obtained from all Government Departments or can be downloaded from
www.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za / www.labour.gov.za
Applications should be addressed to various institution as per the applicant’s
need, for Head Office, Seshego Treatment Centre and Mavambe Secure Care
Centre: Applications should be directed to Acting Head of Department, Private
Bag X9710, Polokwane, 0700 or submitted at: 21 Biccard Street, Olympic
Towers Building, Ground Floor, Office no 30.
Polokwane Welfare Complex: Applications should be directed Head of
Institution, Private Bag X9713, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at Plot 303
Strekloop, Polokwane.
Capricorn District/Sekutupu Old Age Home: The District Director, Private
Bag X9709, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at 34 Hans Van Rensburg
Polokwane.
Sekhukhune District/Tubatse CYCC: The District Director, Private Bag X80,
Lebowakgomo, 0737 or hand delivered at Old Parliament Building
Lebowakgomo.
` Vhembe/Thohoyandou CYCC/Mtsetweni CYCC: The District Director,
Private Bag X5040, Thohoyandou, 0950 or hand delivered at Thohoyandou
Child and Youth Care Centre, Thohoyandou Block F Punda Maria Road,
Thohoyandou.
Waterberg District: The District Director, Private Bag X1051, Modimolle, 0510
or hand delivered at Cnr Elias Motswaledi & Thabo Mbeki Street, Modimolle.
Mopani District/Irish House: The District Director, Private Bag X9689, Giyani,
0826 or should be hand delivered at Department of Social Development
Unigaza Road Giyani Section A, 0826.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025 at 16h00.
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be fully completed and signed by the applicant. The
following must be considered in relation to the completion of the Z83 by
applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D must be completed. In Part
B, all fields should be completed in full except the following: South African
applicants need not provide passport numbers. If an applicant responded “No”
to the question “Are you conducting business with the State or are you a
Director of a Public or Private company conducting business with the State?
Then it is acceptable for an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank
to the question. If yes (provide detail), “In the event that you are employed in
the Public Service, will you immediately relinquish such business interest?”.
61
Applicants may leave the following question blank if they are not in possession
of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide
date and particulars of registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for
Part E, F & G, applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see
attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides
the required information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the
applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the
application of employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the
information that is provided therein. The questions related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered. Applicants with
foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications
are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to
provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants are not required to submit certified
copies of educational qualifications, academic records, current registration with
the relevant statutory body, Identity documents and a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license (where required) but must submit a duly completed Z83
application for employment form, and a detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to come for an interview, at which time, certified copies of all
relevant qualifications, current registration with the relevant statutory body,
copy of ID and a valid motor vehicle driver’s license (where required) must be
submitted. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One shall be a practical exercise and the other shall be an
Integrity [Ethical Conduct], an Assessment as per Directive on Human
Resource Management and Development for Public Service
Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. The successful candidate will
be subjected to security clearance [Vetting] as per the Directive on Human
Resource Management and Development for Public Service
Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. NB: Applicants are
encouraged to comply with Practice note on the Z83 application for
employment DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, Clarification regarding the completion
of Z83 application DPSA circular 3 of 2025 and other related matters. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall among other determination be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. The Limpopo
Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative
Action Employer. Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities
remain our target and are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be
entered into with short-listed candidates only due to a large number of
applications we envisage to receive, if you have not heard from the Department
within ninety (90) day from the closing date, consider your application
unsuccessful. However, Faxed applications will not be considered. Recognition
of experience on appointment will be considered for Social Service Professions
in line with Occupational Dispensation prescripts. The contents of this circular
will also be posted on the following websites www.dsd.limpopo.gov.za /
www.limpopo.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za, Provincial Departments website and
social media. Please note: Due to austerity measure, the department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates
attending interviews.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/73 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: SOCIAL WELFARE SERVICES REF NO:
DSD/2025/55 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R970 686 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s degree in social work or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of ten (10) year’s appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Current registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A
valid driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities). Core And
Process Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Programme and
project management, Change Management, Financial management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of the social welfare
62
services programme legislation and related policies governing services. Expert
skills to challenge structural source of poverty, inequality, oppression,
discrimination and exclusion. Expert knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at the points where people
interact with their environments in order to promote social well-being. The
ability and competence to assist and empower individuals, families, groups,
organisations and communities to enhance their social functioning and their
problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources
effectively in cases where expert knowledge is required. The understanding
and ability to provide complex social work service towards protecting people
who are vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect themselves. The ability to
compile complex reports.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialised
nature within (a) defined area(s) of specialisation with regard to the care,
support, protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families
and communities through the relevant programmes in partnership with
stakeholders. Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from,
social instability in any form. Facilitate the development and planning of
programmes and interventions to render a social work service through the
efficient, economical and effective utilisation of financial resources. Manage of
a social work unit to ensure that an efficient and effective social work service
is delivered through the efficient and effective utilisation of human resources.
Keep up to date with new development in the social work and management
field. Plan and ensure that social work research and development are
undertaken. Undertaken complex social work research. Perform and/or ensure
that all the administrative functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/74 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: CHILDREN AND FAMILIES REF NO:
DSD/2025/56 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R970 686 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s degree in social work or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of ten (10) year’s appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Current registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A
valid driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities). Core And
Process Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Programme and
project management, Change Management, Financial management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
Knowledge And Skills: Expert skills to challenge structural source of poverty,
inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Expert knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene
at the points where people interact with their environments in order to promote
social well-being. The ability and competence to assist and empower
individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to enhance their
social functioning and their problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate
distress and use resources effectively in cases where expert knowledge is
required. The understanding and ability to provide complex social work service
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect
themselves. The ability to compile complex reports.
DUTIES : Oversee Social Work Services with regard to care, support, protection and
development of children and families through relevant interventions and
programmes. Coordinate the implementation of Child Protection services.
Facilitate care and support to families. Monitor Child & Youth Care Centre &
Community based Services. Monitor Childhood Development and Partial Care.
Keep up to date with new development in the social work and management
field. Plan and ensure that social work research and development are
undertaken. Undertake complex social work research. Perform and/or ensure
that all the administrative functions required in the unit are performed.
63
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/75 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: CHILD AND YOUTH CARE CENTRE GRADE
1 REF NO: DSD/2025/57 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R970 686 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s degree in social work. A minimum of
ten (10) years appropriate experience in social work after registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Current
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
[SACSSP]. A valid motor driver’s license (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Communication, Advocacy and collaboration. Knowledge and Skills:
Expert knowledge and understanding of the Children’s Act 38 of 2005 and
related policies governing Child and Youth Care Centre Operations.
Knowledge of designing and implementing programmes for children and youth.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) White Paper for Social
Welfare Services and Social Service Professions Act.
DUTIES : Manage social work services regarding care, support, protection and
development of children and youth through relevant interventions and
programmes. Facilitate implementation of developmental, therapeutic and
recreational programmes for children. Manage admission and discharge of
children in the centre. Provide holistic child protection services for children in
the Child and Youth Care Centre (CYCC). Develop, implement and monitor
behaviour management strategies for children. Ensure that each child has a
comprehensive care plan tailored to their needs, and that social workers are
effectively implementing and reviewing these plans. Ensure reporting and
management of child protection contraventions to the relevant authorities in
terms of the Children’s Act. Ensure capacity building of staff on child protection
matters. Facilitate permanency planning of children. Manage allocation of
children’s cases. Facilitate compliance to Children’s Act alternative care
provisions. Provide professional supervision to social workers and childcare
staff. Manage financial, administrative and other related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/76 : MANAGER SOCIAL WORK POLICY: SUBSTANCE ABUSE REF NO:
DSD/2025/58 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R970 686 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s degree in social work. A minimum of
ten (10) years appropriate experience in social work after registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP] of which five
(05) years should be appropriate experience in Social Work Policy
Development. Current registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions [SACSSP]. A valid motor driver’s license (with the
exception of persons with disabilities). Core and Process Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management,
Change Management, Financial Management, People Management and
Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client
orientation and customer focus. Communications, Conflict management,
analytical thinking, and interpretation skill. Report writing skills. Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of the Prevention of and Treatment for Substance Abuse Act
70 of 2008 and the National Drug Master Plan. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Social Service Professions Act. White Paper for
Social Welfare Services.
64
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and implementation of policies for rendering of anti-
substance abuse programmes. Facilitate the establishment and monitoring of
centers to combat substance abuse. Ensure effective co-ordination of
Substance Abuse Forum and establishment of local Drug Action Committees.
Ensure the development and implementation of programs on substance abuse
in communities and in institutions. Facilitate and monitor capacity building of
officers and volunteers in the field of anti-substance abuse. Manage financial,
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/77 : MANAGER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRADE 1: POVERTY
ALLEVIATION & SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD GRADE 1 REF NO:
DSD/2025/59 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R970 686 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification / Bachelor’s degree in development studies/social
science as recognized with SAQA. A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate
experience in Community Development. A valid driver’s license. Core and
Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and
Project Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of individual and group
behaviour, its inter-relations within community structures, dynamics of the
community and current legislation to enable interventions. The ability and
competence to manage community development structures and projects. The
ability to influence individuals and groups to participate in their own self-
empowerment ventures. Presentation skills. Problem solving skills. The ability
to undertake complex research. Financial management. Project Management.
Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Staff management.
Policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the Public Service
Management Framework, i.e. PFMA, Labour relations etc.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure the implementation of policies, norms and standards for
sustainable livelihood services. Draft and implement integrated development
programmes that facilitate empowerment of communities towards sustainable
livelihood. Develop and implement poor households profile programmes.
Conduct need analysis for poor households and implement strategies and
policies regarding poor households profiling programmes. Develop links and
partnerships with formal and informal sectors. Manage financial, administrative
and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/78 : ASSISTANT MANAGER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GRADE 1:
POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD SERVICES
(X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R602 361 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: DSD/2025/60 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/61 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/62 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2025/63 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2025/64 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Development Studies/ Social Sciences or equivalent
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (08) years’
appropriate experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception
of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of individual and group behaviour, its inter-relations within
community structures, dynamics of the community and current legislation to
enable interventions. Knowledge of community development principles. The
ability and competence to manage community development structures and
projects. The ability to influence individuals and groups to participate in self-
65
empowerment ventures. The ability to undertake complex research. Problem
solving and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal
communication skills. Financial management. Presentation skills. Project
management. Human Resource Management. Knowledge of the Public
Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act, etc.
DUTIES : Coordinate the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with other relevant stakeholders
through the efficient, effective and economical utilisation of resources by the
service delivery area(s). Coordinate and manage community development
service delivery area(s) to ensure that an efficient and effective community
development service is delivered through the proper utilization of human,
financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new developments in
the community development and management fields to enhance service
delivery. Plan and ensure that research on community development is
undertaken including the facilitation of complex community development
research.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/79 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER: NURSING GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD/2025/65
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6
registered with SAQA. A minimum of nine (09) years appropriate experience
in. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council [SANC]. A valid
driver’s license Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of computer Literacy,
Interpersonal Skills, Communication Skills, Report writing Skills, Financial
Management, Empathy and Counselling skills. Knowledge of relevant acts and
regulations in Nursing and People management and empowerment, minimum
standards, performance management system, the Child Care Act, and Batho
Pele Principles, administrative procedures.
DUTIES : Coordinate and Facilitate planning for programmes. Coordinate and monitor
the implementation of the MCWH Programme. Monitor the implementation of
strategies contained in the health programme plan. Evaluate the delivery of
MCWH programme in the Centre. Liaison with Government and non-
government organisations on issues relating to programmes. Ensure good
working relations with all role players and relevant stakeholders. Analyse
emerging health practices care specialists. Overall supervision of all the
subordinates. Attend to meetings and report writing as well as performance
evaluation of the staff.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/80 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X15 POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn District (X4 Posts)
Mankweng Ref No: DSD/2025/66 (X2 Posts)
Seshego One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/67 (X1 Post)
Senwabarwana Ref No: DSD/2025/68 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District (X4 Posts)
Tubatse Ref No: DSD/2025/69 (X2 Posts)
Elias Motswaledi Ref No: DSD/2025/70 (X1 Post)
Makhuduthamaga Ref No: DSD/2025/71 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District (X4 Posts)
Madimbo Thusong Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/72 (X1 Post)
Tshidimbi Welfare Office Ref No: DSD/2025/73 (X1 Post)
Thohoyandou SASSA Ref No: DSD/2025/74 (X1 Post)
Xigalo Office Ref No: DSD/2025/75 (X1 Post)
Mopani District (X3 Posts)
Ba-Phalaborwa Ref No: DSD/2025/76 (X1 Post)
Maruleng Ref No: DSD/2025/77 (X1 Post)
Greater Tzaneen Ref No: DSD/2025/78 (X1 Post)
66
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Ensure that social work services are rendered with regard to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individual, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes. Ensure service compliance to
norms and standards. Ensure social worker’s compliance with South African
Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP] projects. Supervise and
advise social workers and social auxiliary workers. Coordinate and manage all
programmes including transformation of social welfare services. Rendering
support and mentoring social workers. Rendering counselling to clients.
Monitoring and evaluation of non-profit organisations.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/81 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: NON-INSTITUTIONALISED
HIV/AIDS & SOCIAL RELIEF REF NO: DSD/2025/79 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Waterberg District: District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Facilitate community Home-Based care. Facilitate capacity-building
programmes for relevant stakeholders. Facilitate HIV/AIDS programmes.
Facilitate social relief of distress.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/82 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: CARE & SUPPORT TO FAMILIES
REF NO: DSD/2025/80 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Waterberg District: District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Coordinate family preservation services. Monitor and evaluate services to
families. Facilitate and assess dysfunctional families.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
67
POST 25/83 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: CHILD PROTECTION SERVICES
REF NO: DSD/2025/81 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Waterberg District: District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Facilitate childcare and protection services. Facilitate community-based care
services for children. Facilitate foster care and adoption services.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/84 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: OLDER PERSONS & PERSONS
WITH DISABILITIES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn District: District Office Ref No: DSD/2025/82 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: District Office Ref No: DSD/2025/83 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of older persons and persons with disability.
Facilitate Social Work Services to the elderly. Facilitate integrated disability
services.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/85 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: SERVICE STANDARDS,
QUALITY ASSURANCE & GOVERNANCE REF NO: DSD/2025/84 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani District: District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Social Work or equivalent as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Manage integrated social work services. Coordinate the implementation of
social service norms and standard. Coordinate social welfare institutional
services. Ensure compliance with South African Council for Social services
Professions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
68
POST 25/86 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R453 201 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn District: (X2 Posts)
Lepelle-Nkumpi Ref No: DSD/2025/85 (X1 Post)
Ratshatsha Ref No: DSD/2025/86 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: (X2 Posts)
Thabazimbi Ref No: DSD/2025/87 (X1 Post)
Bela-Bela Ref No: DSD/2025/88. (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: (X2 Posts)
Fetakgomo Ref No: DSD/2025/89 (X1 Post)
Lukau Ref No: DSD/2025/90 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: (X2 Posts)
Makhado Ref No: DSD/2025/91 (X1 Post)
Collins Chabane Ref No: DSD/2025/92 (X1 Post)
Mopani District: (X2 Posts)
Lebaka One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/93 (X1 Post)
Dzumeri Ref No: DSD/2025/94 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s Degree in Development Studies
Science or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of
seven (07) years’ appropriate experience in Community Development after
obtaining the required qualification. A valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with
the exception of person with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
and understanding of individual and group behaviour, it inter relations within
community structures, dynamics of the community and current legislation to
enable interventions. The ability and competence to manage community
development structures and projects. The ability to influence individuals and
groups to participate in their own self-empowerment ventures. Problem solving
and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal
communication skills. The ability to undertake complex research. Financial
management. Presentation skills. Project management. Human resource
management. Policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the Public
Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act, etc.
DUTIES : Manage community development structures and projects. Supervise the
identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated community
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders. Supervise and support community development
practitioners to ensure that there is communication and coordination with all
the relevant role players, internal and external. Perform administrative support
on community development and related activities. Keep up to date with the
new developments in the community development field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/87 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD/2025/95 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 233 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualifications / Bachelor’s degree in degree in Occupational
Therapy, equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Current registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa [HPCSA] as an
Occupational Therapist. A valid motor driver’s license (with the exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Sound knowledge of
occupational therapy practice and ethos. Good clinical reasoning and decision-
making skills. Knowledge on use and care of equipment. Knowledge on scope
of practice, ethical codes and relevant legislation. Good organisation and time
management skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal relations.
Basic supervisory skills. Experience in a clinical tertiary setting with complex
cases would be an advantage.
DUTIES : Develop patients treatment plan. Render occupational therapy services in
allocated areas of work that comply with the norms and standard as indicated
by health policies. To provide optimal and evidence based occupational therapy
in individual and group settings for in, out and clinics patients. To administer
standardized and clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other
69
clinical reports. To perform and complete administrative functions, including
record keeping, statistics, and participate in various meetings and awareness
campaigns. To plan for and participate in internal and external audits and
ensure departmental standards and effective service delivery. To participate in
the performance management and training, and development programs within
the department. To supervise junior-level staff. To supervise allocated students
and learners. Assessment and treatment of patients in allocated work.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/88 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn District (X4 Posts):
Buffelshoek Ref No: DSD/2025/96 (X2 Posts)
Lepelle-Nkumpi Ref No: DSD/2025/97 (X1 Post)
Ratshatsha Ref No: DSD/2025/98 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District (X3 Posts):
Vaalwater (Mabatlane) Ref No: DSD/2025/99 (X1 Post)
Modimolle-Mookgophong Ref No: DSD/2025/100 (X1 Post)
Thabaleshoba Ref No: DSD/2025/101 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
Sempupuru Ref No: DSD/2025/10 (X1 Post)
Makhuduthamaga Ref No: DSD/2025/103 (X1 Post)
Praktiseer Ref No: DSD/2025/104 (X1 Post)
Leboeng Ref No: DSD/2025/105 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District:
Makhado Ref No: DSD/2025/106 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification / Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities) Knowledge: Skills
and Competencies: knowledge and understanding of human behaviour, social
system and skills to intervene at a point where people interact with their
environment in order to promote their well-being. Knowledge of programme
and project management skills. Information and knowledge management skills.
People management and empowerment skills. Communication and
coordination skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render advanced and specialized social work services with regard to care,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, group, families and
communities. Provide individual and group counselling. Conduct advance and
specialized assessment aimed at identifying condition and justify relevant
intervention. Implement the recommendations on the appropriate intervention
required to address the needs and provide continuous support. Produce and
maintain records of social work interventions, processes and outcomes.
Undertake social work research and development, contribute to and assist with
the development of policies. Perform all the administrative functions required
of the job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/89 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: PERSONNEL RECORD (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/107 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2025/108 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. Qualifications/Certificate in Records and Archives will
be an added advantage. A minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in
Records/Registry. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with the exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in registry.
70
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise and render an effective
filing and record management service. Supervise the operation and operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Supervise the processing
and process documents for archiving and/disposal. Supervise human
resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/90 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Office of the Chief Director: Social Welfare Services Ref No:
DSD/2025/109 (X1 Post)
Polokwane Welfare Complex: Office of the Director: Head of Institution Ref No:
DSD/2025/110 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 6 in Management Assistance/ Secretarial/Office
Management/Public Administration/Management or equivalent relevant
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in
rendering support to senior management. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence
(with the exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and
procedures governing the public service. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Excellent written and verbal skills. Good telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy. Sound organisational skills. Interpersonal relations. High
level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to conduct
research, document analysis and situations. Self-management and motivation.
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Manager. Render
administrative support services. Provide support to manager regarding
meetings. Support the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget. Obtain inputs and compile reports. Respond to enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders. Keep abreast with the procedures and
processes applicable in the office of the Manager.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/91 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 per annum (Level: PN - A4)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex Ref No: DSD/2025/111 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/112 (X1 Post)
Seshego Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/113 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification i.e., an NQF level 6 / 7 qualification in Nursing or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Nursing Council as a Professional nurse. Knowledge: Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, OHSA,
Patient Rights Charter, etc. Good communication skills. Report writing skills.
Facilitation skills. Liaison and networking skills. Supervision skills. Information
management. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide nursing and occupational therapy services to children and youth / older
persons in the centre. Provide direction and supervision of nursing in the centre
for the implementation of the Nursing plan [Clinical practice and quality patient
care]. Implement standards, practices, criteria and indicators for quality
nursing. Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and
regulations relevant to the nursing and health care. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Patient transfer to
other health facilities.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
015 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
71
POST 25/92 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R278 169 per annum (Level: Cd- A4)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Lepelle-Nkumpi Ref No: DSD/2025/114 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Tubatse Ref No: DSD/2025/115 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Social Sciences or equivalent qualification
as recognised by SAQA. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
community development work, skills, attitudes and values of communities.
Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour, social systems and
relevant legislations. The ability and competence to coordinate community
development structures. The ability to influence individuals and group to
participate in self-empowerment ventures. Understanding of social dynamics
of communities. Knowledge and understanding of basic financial management.
Presentation skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills.
Facilitation skills. Research skills. Project management.
DUTIES : Identify and facilitate the implementation of integrated community development
interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant
stakeholders. Collaborate and liaise with pertinent role players and
stakeholders to establish partnerships to ensure the sustainability of
development actions within the community. Support communities and perform
administrative support on community development and related activities. Keep
abreast of new developments in the community development field to enhance
service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/93 : CHILD & YOUTH CARE SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD/2025/116
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R255 534 per annum (Level: CYC-A5)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification
and a FET Certificate in child and youth care equivalent to an NQF Level 4
qualification registered with SAQA. A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate
experience in the child and youth care after obtaining the Child & youth care
qualification. Current registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions [SACSSP]. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of minimum
standards, performance management system, the Child Care Act, Batho Pele
Principles, administrative procedures, and new development and
methodologies in child and youth care work. Good communication skills.
Conflict management and problem-solving skills. The ability to interpret policies
and legislation. Planning and organising skills. Basic research and analytical
skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills.
People management and empowerment skills. Understanding, Non-
judgmental, Respectful, Caring, Assertive and Tolerant. The ability to motivate.
DUTIES : Facilitate and supervise (secure) the caring for and life space interventions of
children and young people. Participate in the multidisciplinary team. Supervise
staff to ensure an effective care service. Perform clerical/ administrative
function. Keep up to date with new developments in the child and youth care
field. Management of Child & Youth Care information management system
(CYCA).
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/94 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: DSD/2025/117 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R252 855 per annum (Level: MR – 4)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Law (LLB) or equivalent relevant
qualification. A minimum of 1-8 years’ experience after obtaining the degree. A
valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Sound knowledge of South African legal
system and applicable legislation relevant to social development. Knowledge
of Public Finance Management Act. Legal drafting and interpretation skills.
72
Strong administrative and organizational skills. Excellent written and verbal
communication. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Ability to work
independently and under pressure. Analytical skills. Dispute resolution. Legal
research. Project management skills. Policy analysis and interpretation skills.
DUTIES : Draft, edit and/or review legal documents including contracts, memoranda,
opinions, and correspondence. Provide legal support in the interpretation and
application of relevant legislation, including the Constitution, the Children’s Act,
the Older Persons Act, and the Social Assistance Act. Assist in the preparation
of legal opinions and advice for departmental units. Manage and maintain legal
case files and records. Assist in handling of litigation matters involving the
Department in liaison with the State Attorney’s office. Support labour relations
cases and disciplinary hearings by preparing documentation and assisting with
procedural compliance. Participate in legislative and policy development
processes affecting the department. Conduct legal research to support the
functions of the Legal Services Directorate. Ensure compliance with PAIA,
POPIA, and other statutory frameworks. Monitor the implementation of legal
instructions and advice within the department.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/95 : ARTISAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R243 597 per annum (Level: Grade A)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex Ref No: DSD/2025/118 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/119 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/120 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2025/121 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District (Plumber) Ref No: DSD/2025/122 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Trade Test Certificate as recognised by SAQA. A
valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations. Electrical
Maintenance Manual. Health and safety measures. Technical analysis.
Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity.
Self-Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Good
Communication Skills. Computer skills. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair of electrical in the facility. Identification of minor electrical
faults. Construction of all minor electrical projects. Attend to job cards. Perform
electrical-related duties. Do electrical faults finding.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/96 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Seshego Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/123 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District: Lepelle-Nkumpi Ref No: DSD/2025/124 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in HRM/D will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies
and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysing and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills. PERSAL literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate Recruitment and Selection of Employees (Appointments, Security
Background Checks, verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at
interviews/shortlisting, probationary periods, etc.). Administration of condition
of service. Administration of Service Benefit. Facilitation of Transfers. Facilitate
Human Resource Training & Development. Render Performance Management
and Development Services.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
73
POST 25/97 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe District: District Office Ref No: DSD/2025/125 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: District Office Ref No: DSD/2025/126 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Public Management / Administration
and/or Finance will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Computer
literacy skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal
relations. Planning and organising. Language skills. Teamwork. Aptitude of
figures. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate
office equipment and Accuracy. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data. Allocate financial statistics.
Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial legislations.
Procedures and treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL,
BAS, LOGIS etc).
DUTIES : Carry out the barcoding of Assets in the District. Registering of Asset. Conduct
Asset verification in the district.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/98 : ADMIN CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD/2025/127 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Public Management / Administration
and/or Finance will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Computer
literacy skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal
relations. Planning and organising. Language skills. Teamwork. Aptitude of
figures. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate
office equipment and Accuracy. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data. Allocate financial statistics.
Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial legislations.
Procedures and treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL,
BAS, LOGIS etc).
DUTIES : Receive invoices, check invoices for correctness, verification and approval
(internal control). Process invoices (e.g. capture payments). Filing of all
documents. Collection of cash. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e.g.
check advice for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). Capture and record transactions on financial
systems. Receive, verify and process supplier invoices for payments. Maintain,
update and organise financial records and filing systems. Reconcile accounts,
payments registers and other financial records. Assist in the preparation of
financial reports. Provide documentation and administrative support during
audits and financial reviews. Ensure adherence to PFMA, Treasury regulations
and internal financial policies. Render asset management and clerical support
services. Render logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/99 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R220 614 per annum (Level: SN 1)
CENTRE : Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/128 (X1 Post)
Mavambe Secure Care Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/129 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
[SANC] as Enrolled Nurse. Knowledge And Skills: Computer Literacy. Report
writing skill. Basic nursing skill. Knowledge of legal framework governing the
public service. Knowledge of law governing the nursing profession. Client
orientation and customer focus.
74
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Implement
nursing care with the scope of practice for enrolled nurse. Report writing and
updating client register. provide basic clinical nursing care. provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Filling of record.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/100 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST ASSITANT GRADE 1 REF NO:
DSD/2025/130 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R217 092 per annum (Level: OTA – Gr 1)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NQF Level 04 or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA.
Certificate of registration with the Health Professions Council of Social Africa
[HPCSA]. Current registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa [HPCSA] as an Occupational Therapist Assistant. Knowledge And Skills:
Good communication skills. Knowledge of legal framework governing the
public service. Interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Render occupational therapy services in accordance with rules and regulations
of HPCSA. Treatment of patients under direct supervision of the Occupational
Therapist using protocols and procedures are designed by the department’s
facilitate group therapeutic activity programmes and contributes in patient skills
development and training. Organise patients functions and health awareness
calendar events, sports and recreational services is allocated units/wards.
Implement appropriate rehabilitation intervention under supervision of the
Therapist. Execute necessary admin duties related to patient care. Participate
in own and other professional development.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/101 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE TEAM LEADER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R203 748 per annum (Level: CYC – A3)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex Ref No: DSD/2025/131 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Tubatse Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No:
DSD/2025/132 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF Level 04 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification
and an FET Certificate in child and youth care equivalent to an NQF Level 04
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of Seven (07) years
appropriate experience in child and youth care after obtaining the Child & Youth
care qualification. Current registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions [SACSSP]. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework (Children’s Act, Child Care Act,
Child Justice Act) governing the secure care centres. Good communication and
listening skills, Ability to intervene and resolve conflict, good time keeping,
Ability to maintain confidentiality. Experience in secure care environment will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Implementation of planned activities, developmental and therapeutic
programmes. Accompany and follow-up on planned and developmental
therapeutic programmes. Serves as a team leader for child and youth care
workers during shift. Undertake inspections during a shift and report on
incidents and problems identified. Perform administrative work relevant to the
job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/102 : LAUNDRY AID SUPERVISOR REF NO: DSD/2025/133 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Vhembe District: Thohoyandou Child & Youth Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 / ABET / AET Level 04. Three (03) years of related experience
required. Knowledge and Skills: Basic computer literacy. Ability to motivate and
guide laundry staff, delegate tasks effectively and foster a positive work
75
environment. Good verbal and non-verbal communication with staff,
management and other departments. Identifying and resolving issues related
to equipment malfunctions, staffing shortage or quality control problems. Ability
to train new staff on laundry procedures, safety protocols and equipment
operation.
DUTIES : Check and verify laundry machine functioning. Supervise loading of linen onto
the washing machine in line with laundry guidelines or protocols. Identify and
send linen for mending. Receive and record collected linen in the linen
receiving/depositing area. Record sorted dirty or soiled linen in the linen
register. Supervise offloading of the washed linen from the washing machine.
Check and monitor condition of laundry machine equipment. Supervise and
monitor cleaning of laundry equipment in line with environmental/ health safety
standards. Check compliance of laundry. Allocate functions to staff. Supervise
provision of laundry services. Develop allocation schedules or duty rooster.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/103 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R192 972 per annum, (Level: SW – A1)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Groethoek Ref No: DSD/2025/134 (X1 Post)
Ceres Ref No: DSD/2025/135 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification
and Social Auxiliary Certificate. Current registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Knowledge and Skills:
Demonstrate basic understanding of the South African social welfare context,
theandlicy and practice of development social welfare services also the role of
social auxiliary worker within this context. Define and demonstrate
understanding of the purpose of social auxiliary work also with the role and
functions of a social auxiliary worker in relation to a social worker within South
African context. Consistently reflect the values and principles contained in the
Bill of Rights, and social work profession’s Code of Ethics in service delivery
as a social auxiliary worker. Demonstrate a basic understanding of the South
African judicial system, the legislations governing and impacting on social
auxiliary work and social work. Demonstrate a basic understanding of human
behaviour, relationship system and social issues. Implement appropriate social
auxiliary work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client
system. Use appropriate resources in service delivery to client systems. Work
effectively with social workers and members of multi-sectoral teams in social
service delivery. Work effectively as a social auxiliary worker to address the
special needs and problems experienced by at least 3 of the priority focus
groups in the social welfare. Keep precise records and compile accurate
reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file them
appropriately. Provide an efficient research and administrative support services
to the social worker. Demonstrate basic knowledge of financial matters related
to social auxiliary work. Demonstrate self-awareness regarding personal
capacities, attitudes skills and willingness to develop them further under the
supervision of a social worker.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes. Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Keep abreast
with new developments in the social work and social services field. Perform
administrative support functions in support of social workers as required of the
job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/104 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE WORKER GRADE 1 (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R184 320 per annum (Level: CYC – A1)
CENTRE : Mavambe Secure Care Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/136 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/137 (X2 Posts)
76
Sekhukhune District: Tubatse Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No:
DSD/2025/138 (X3 Posts)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No:
DSD/2025/139 (X4 Posts)
Mopani District: Irish House Ref No: DSD/2025/140 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF Level 04 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification
and an FET Certificate in child and youth care equivalent to an NQF Level 04
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Current registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework (Children’s
Act, Child Care Act, Child Justice Act) governing the Secure Care Centres.
Good communication skills, Good interpersonal relationships, Ability to handle
pressure. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills. Experience in
secure care environment will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Receive children and youth to the care facility after admission. Provide
orientation of the child to the centre. Provide care and development of children
and youth where their needs are protected. Ensure that children or youth
receive medical services. Facilitate the independent living and recreational
programmes. Organise family visits and contacts. Escort children to eternal
services. Assist with implementation of developmental and therapy
programmes. Perform administration duties.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/105 : DRIVER REF NO: DSD/2025/141 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Vhembe District: Mtsetweni Child & Youth Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 03 (Grade 10 / ABET / AET) or equivalent
qualifications as recognized by SAQA. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence plus
Public Driving Permit (PDP). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the Province
in which functions will be performed. Knowledge of the procedures to operate
the motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the
logbooks of the motor vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain
basic services (e.g. fixing a flat tyre). Knowledge of the prescripts for the correct
utilisation of the motor vehicle and the requirements for the storage of the
vehicle. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is
maintained properly.
DUTIES : Transport Officials to various places. Monitor performance and conditions of
government vehicles. Perform routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle
and report defects timely. Complete all the required prescribed records and
logbooks with regard to the vehicle and the goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/106 : HOUSEHOLD AID REF NO: DSD/2025/142 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 8/GRADE 10/AET/ABET or equivalent qualification.
Ability to read and write. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Knowledge of hygiene, safety, and an understanding of household
management. Knowledge of basic safety and hygiene practices. Knowledge of
infection control and hazard monitoring. Interpersonal skills. Communication
skills. Time management. Customer service skills and adaptability.
DUTIES : Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal
of garbage and disposal. Ensure cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms,
bathrooms and other places in the building/offices. Clean kitchen utensils and
equipment. Maintain and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea
and meal utensils. Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient
working condition. Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired.
Report shortage and or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom,
arranging chairs, water, glasses and any other utensils. Store all cleaning
equipment and products neatly in the designated and lockable cupboards.
77
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/107 : LAUNDRY AID (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/143 (X1 Post)
Mopani District: Irish House Ref No: DSD/2025/144 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Tubatse Child & Youth Care Centre Ref No:
DSD/2025/145 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 08 / Grade 10 / AET / ABET or equivalent qualification.
Ability to read and write. Knowledge and Skills: Communication skills.
Interpersonal skills. Time management skills. Ability to identify and correct
issues with laundry quality such as stains, damage or improper drying.
Understanding of the entire laundry cycle, from sorting and washing to drying,
folding and storage.
DUTIES : Sort items based on fabric type, colour and washing instructions. Operate
washing machines and dryers. Iron items, fold them neatly for storage and
delivery. Ensure maintenance of laundry equipment. Notify management of low
stock level. Keep laundry area organised and clean.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/108 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: DSD/2025/146 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old Age Home
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and competencies: Junior Certificate or STD 08/Grade 10 /
ABET / AET or equivalent qualification. Ability to read and write. Knowledge
and Skills: Good communication skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Prepare and serve meals to children and youth. Cleaning and purification of
the kitchen, canteen and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/109 : GROUNDSMAN/WOMAN (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: (X2 Posts)
Mankweng Ref No: DSD/2025/147 (X1 Post)
Mafefe Ref No: DSD/2025/148 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: (X2 Posts)
Phagameng Ref No: DSD/2025/149 (X1 Post)
Bela-Bela Ref No: DSD/2025/150 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: (X2 Posts)
Fetakgomo Ref No: DSD/2025/151 (X1 Post)
Makhuduthamaga Ref No: DSD/2025/152 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: (X2 Posts)
Musina One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/153 (X1 Post)
Tshitale One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/154 (X1 Post)
Mopani District (X2 Posts)
Gawula Ref No: DSD/2025/155 (X1 Post)
Namakgale Ref No: DSD/2025/156 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 08/Grade 10/ AET / ABET or equivalent qualification.
Ability to read and write. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Infection control. Garden materials. Occupational health and safety
act. White paper on transformation in the public services. Good communication
skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: Clean premises and surroundings.
Empty dirty bins. Maintain the garden: Watering the garden; Prune and trim
flowers and trees; Mow the grass; Remove weeds and garden refuse; Apply
insecticides; Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment and tools: Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening equipment
and tools; Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools. Keep
78
gardening materials and equipment: Cleaning or machines and equipment’s
after use; Request gardening materials.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 25/110 : CLEANER (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: (X4 Posts)
District Office Ref No: DSD/2025/157 (X1 Post)
Mafefe Ref No: DSD/2025/158 (X1 Post)
Botlokwa Ref No: DSD/2025/159 (X1 Post)
Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2025/160 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Mabatlane Ref No: DSD/2025/161 (X1 Post)
Thabaleshoba Ref No: DSD/2025/162 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District:
Malamulele Welfare Office Ref No: DSD/2025/163 (X1 Post)
Tshidimbini Welfare Complex Ref No: DSD/2025/164 (X1 Post)
Mopani District:
Irish House Ref No: DSD/2025/165 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 08/Grade 10/ AET / ABET or equivalent qualification.
Ability to read and write. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Infection control. Garden materials. Occupational health and safety
act. White paper on transformation in the public services. Good communication
skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render cleaning services. Use and keep all cleaning goods and materials
properly. Requisition of cleaning materials. Ensure infection control. Store all
cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards. Provide
assistance in the preparation of meetings in the boardroom.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
79
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the Post: Professional Nurse: (Specialty Critical
Care) (X3 Posts) Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory, with Ref No: Post
24/189, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy 24 dated 11 July 2025. The
post has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/111 : MANAGER PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES
SALARY : R1 322 352 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office, Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the SA
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience after
registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Leadership and management experience. Training and experience in Medicine
Management. Strong leadership skills with regard to management,
organisation and strategic planning. Project management skills and Computer
Literacy. Knowledge of the Acts pertaining to the practice of pharmacy and
national and provincial health policies. Ability to cope under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism.
DUTIES : The overall management of pharmaceutical services in the Garden Route and
Central Karoo Districts. Strategic planning and implementation regarding
pharmacy staff needs in the Garden Route Districts. Planning of
pharmaceutical budget and monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure in the
Garden Route Districts. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of Pharmacy
related National, Provincial and District policies in the Garden Route and
Central Karoo Districts. Monitor and evaluate the standard of pharmaceutical
service delivery in the Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Mentoor Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HIV/ CLINICAL POLICY AND GOVERNANCE
Chief Directorate: Emergency Clinical and Services Support
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Service Priorities Coordination
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related
Diploma/Degree or equivalent, registrable with a South African Statutory
Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the management and coordination of public health
programmes. Appropriate experience in clinical policy and life course vaccines.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel to the districts and national
office. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced computer literacy. Ability to
work under pressure and to meet deadlines. Ability to produce and evaluate
detailed policy documentation and to produce reports of a high standard. The
ability to perform a detailed and critical analysis of the performance of the
80
healthcare service and propose constructive interventions. Project
management and research skills. Be familiar with the legal, policy, managerial
and clinical aspects of public health programmes/interventions and services.
DUTIES : Oversee the Clinical Policy and Governance Sub-Directorate. Manage and
coordinate the development and adaptation of clinical policies, guidelines,
protocols, and tools to guide the prioritisation and implementation of public
health program interventions including life course vaccines. Develop
monitoring and evaluation tools and mechanisms, including clinical
governance assessments and information systems for health programmes.
Manage human and financial resources allocated to specific health
programmes. Ensure effective inter-sectoral collaboration to enhance
programme outcomes. Participate as key member of the Service Priority
Coordination Team and or project team in driving health systems responses as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Goeiman Tel No: (021) 815-8741
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Deputy Director: Clinical Policy
and Governance posts within the Chief Directorate: Emergency & Clinical
Support Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates
may be subjected to conduct a Competency Assessment. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/113 : REGISTRAR (ANAESTHETICS) (X3 POSTS)
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job:
Emergency and after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a
specific training complex but could be required to work across the platform on
request. Commuted overtime is compulsory. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and sufficient clinical
experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion of
internal rotations. Completion of FCA Part 1. Current certificate of ATLS/ACLS.
Diploma in Anaesthesia (DA). Effective leadership & interpersonal skills.
Experience in Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine. Experience in
Internal Medicine or critical care under supervision of a Specialist. Knowledge
& appropriate use of equipment. Knowledge and practical skills for safe
regional and general anaesthesia. Other appropriate Post-Graduate Medical
Diploma, Certificate or Degree.
DUTIES : Provision of safe anaesthetic care to patients. Intensive Care Therapy. Pre-op
assessment of patients & advice to surgeons regarding workup. Post-operative
analgesia & recovery of patients from anaesthesia. Learn the art and science
of anaesthesia practice & ICU Medicine. Learn critical skills required by an
anaesthetist. Attend tutorials and assist with the training of interns, medical
students, nursing staff and paramedics. Supervision in theatre/ICU and
management of theatre lists/staff, especially after hours. Involvement in
research/audits relating to anaesthesia, intensive care and pain management.
ENQUIRIES : Prof M Miller, malcolm.miller@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
81
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape Town
according to the yearbook and guidelines.”
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/114 : REGISTRAR (OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and
after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training
complex but could be required to work across the platform on request. A current
certificate of ATLS and Basic Surgical Skills course completed. Experience:
Appropriate Clinical experience in General and/or ENT surgery. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in research/publications. Effective leadership
and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provision of safe surgical care to patients. Peri-operative care of surgical
patients. Participation in Intensive Care management. Learn the art and
science of ENT Surgery. Attend tutorials and assist with the training of interns,
medical students, nursing staff and paramedics. On-site after-hours duties
relating to care of newly arriving acute patients as well as inpatients.
Involvement in research/audits relating to ENT.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K. Moodley, E-mail: kitesh.moodley@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It
may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution
during their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior
to any decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also
discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
82
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines.”“ Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/115 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs)
CENTRE : TC Newman CDC, Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of general medical and surgical conditions on
hospital and PHC level and Knowledge applicable to South African TB and HIV
care guidelines. Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centred
Clinical Service Provision in the District Health Service. Computer literacy (MS
Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and
teamwork skills. Ability to communicate (verbal and written). Ability and
willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the Drakenstein Sub-
district (including Saron/Gouda), guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Drakenstein SD Primary
Healthcare facilities. Provide an Outreach and Support service to PHC facilities
in the Drakenstein Sub-district (including Saron & Gouda). Actively participate
in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post.
Active involvement in the clinical governance of Drakenstein Sub-district
facilities as required. No compulsory Commuted Overtime (COT) duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P van Wyk (Family Physician) or Dr R Gaffoor (Clinical Manager) Tel No:
(021) 877-400.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
83
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within TC-Newman CDC for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/116 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Harry Comay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to work commuted overtime and after hours when needed.
Willingness to travel and support other facilities in the sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal
and written). Ability to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across
platforms. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal patient care as required by the
various programmes of the Department of Health. Supervise, support, transfer
of knowledge to, training- and mentoring of the clinical staff and auxiliary staff.
Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical
matters and medico-legal work. Participate in clinical governance activities
providing guidance and leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals
and objectives of the division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level
with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TS Ackerman Tel No: (044) 814 - 1124
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District, for a
84
period of 3 months from the date of the advert. Candidates may be subjected
to competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/117 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3: SERVICE RENDERING SUPERVISOR (DENTAL
DIAGNOSTICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R972 612 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration
with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum
of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South
Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Must have the ability and experience to apply knowledge in
the field of emergency dentistry. Good leadership and supervision experience
that require clinical expertise, strong interpersonal relational skills, and
organizational skills.
DUTIES : Service Rendering relating to treating and managing pain and sepsis as well
as dental trauma in adults and children (Emergency Care).
Administration/Record keeping. Management of HR matters, resources and
planning within the Service Rendering Department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CCA Cloete Tel No: (021) 937 3092/3122
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/118 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
Grade 1: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Psychologist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
85
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be
required to perform after hour duties, including weekends and Public Holidays
as operational needs so demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of clinical assessment and management procedures. Experience
in therapy supervision. Working experience with serious mental health
conditions. Excellent clinical skills in terms of consultation. Good professional
attitude. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical services and participate in the planning, monitoring and
evaluation of psychological services in a unit/ward/clinic. Attend and contribute
in ward rounds and in multi-disciplinary team feedback meetings. Manage
referrals and clinically assess and diagnostically and psycho-dynamically
formulate complicated clinical conditions, problems and symptoms. Provide
individual, group- and family-based psychotherapeutic interventions.
Contribute to ward programs. Perform psychometric assessments and write
clinical reports. Supervision of Interns and Registrars. Lecturing and other
academic activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 940 4451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/119 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Hillside Clinic; Beaufort Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic Nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1-year
Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48) accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A minimum of 9 years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Willingness to rotate between PHC clinics within the Sub-
District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Information management with
regards to PHC indicators. Quality assurance knowledge. COPC Principles
and Implementation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic and Office of Health standards
and compliance.
DUTIES : Effective integrated execution and management of all clinical programmes (i.e.
Acute, Chronic, Woman and Child Health and TB/HIV/AIDS/STI). Effective
management of Support Services which includes, Information Management
with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and submission of
data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and performance
management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure effective
86
budgeting and control, control over infrastructure, maintenance and security.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Effective communication with all levels of
service delivery. Facilitation and implementation of COPC.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Hansen Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates can be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/120 : THERAPEUTIC AND MEDICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROGRAMME CO-
ORDINATOR (REHABILITATION SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist, Occupational Therapist, Speech Therapist and Audiologist,
Speech Therapist or Audiologist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience in Rehabilitation Services after registration with the
HPCSA. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Leadership and management. Relevant
experience, knowledge and skills in Primary Health Care services. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Ensure provision of effective and efficient Rehabilitation services within the
designated sub-structure. Develop and facilitate the Rehabilitation
operational/action plans to give strategic direction within the Sub-Structure. Co-
ordinate the implementation of policies, directives, acts and regulations which
affect Rehabilitation services. Co-ordinate the maintenance of Rehabilitation
service standards. Ensure compliance with staffing norms for Rehabilitation
services. Provide input to relevant stakeholders for Rehabilitation programme
of the designated sub-structure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Van Niekerk Tel No: (021) 370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar posts within the Department for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/121 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: NEURO
CLINIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet operational
requirements. It will be required of the incumbent to rotate within the hospital.
87
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
statistical data collection capturing and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and the implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fredericks Tel No: (021) 940-4416
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. This
concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatry. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Director:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/122 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: ICU:
HAEMODIALYSIS, CARDIOTHORACIC, SPINAL ICU) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing:
General. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: To work shifts and after-
hours including weekends, public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other
departments within the Critical Care units. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related
acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison
and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use
of Internet. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Critical Care
units. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Participate in research and training and development of community,
staff and students to achieve optimal health care of Critical Care patients.
Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with administrative duties, e.g.
data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Peters Tel No: (021) 404-5082
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
88
Nursing: General. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Groote Schuur Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/123 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH AND SAFETY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with duration of at least I year, accredited with
the SANC in Occupational Health Nursing Science. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience (in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 3 At least 10 years of the period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty after
obtaining the I-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence and willingness to
travel. The incumbent will be expected to function at/between WCRC,
Brackengate Transitional Care Facility and Orthotic and Prosthetic Centre.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyse and interpret Health
systems information, compile reports and present the data to direct planning.
Knowledge of Project- and financial management. Good organizational,
interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills. Computer literacy
(MS Office). Ability to communicate effectively (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishment (HE) staff meet the Ideal Clinic Realization
and Maintenance (CRM) and Ideal Hospital Realization and Maintenance
(IHRM). Ensure the maintenance of the OHS policy standards. Establish
measures that will ensure health and safety of staff and users. Support and
addressing of healthcare risks. Keep CEO up to date with any OHS concerns
and give recommendations. Help build the competency of staff by identifying,
planning and addressing Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) training needs
and maintaining and updating the Health Establishment training database.
Monitor data quality in the Health Establishment.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs BS Stroebel Tel No: (021) 370 2488
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates can be subjected to a practical, written and oral assessment. No
payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/124 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA &
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
89
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425(Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with a Professional Council.
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and current annual
licensing receipt (2025). Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts including
weekends, public holidays and night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function/ make decisions independently as part of a multi-disciplinary
team. Good communication (verbal and written), interpersonal, leadership and
conflict resolution skills. Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and
health service-related acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving,
report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word,
Excel and Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide safe and comprehensive care delivered to patients. Provision of
optimal, holistic specialized care with set standards within professional/legal
framework. Ensure accurate record-keeping for statistical and legal purposes.
Effective utilization of all resources. Participate in research and training and
development of community, staff and students to achieve optimal health care
and rehabilitation of trauma and emergency patients. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Seconds Tel No: (021) 360-4549
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the
general stream and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification. The pool
of applicants will be considered for other vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/125 : DENTAL TECHNICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3 (PROSTHETICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Dental Technicians Council of South Africa
(SADTC) as a Dental Technician. Registration with a Professional Council:
Current registration with SADTC as a Dental Technician. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the SADTC in Dental Technician in respect of RSA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with
SADTC in Dental Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with the SADTC in Dental Technician in respect of SA qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with SADTC in
Dental Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not
90
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the SADTC in
Dental Technician in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with SADTC in Dental Technology in
respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function within a multi-disciplinary team setting, to
be flexible and to work independently. Good management, administrative and
supervisory, good problem–solving, conflict resolution. Appropriate experience
in a teaching and learning environment. Good Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and Outlook.) Appropriate experience in Mucosa-Borne complete
Dentures, Immediate replacement Dentures Acrylic based, Removable partial
Dentures and Metal-based removable partial Dentures.
DUTIES : Ensure delivery of Dental Technology Services, (Complete Dentures,
Immediate Dentures, Metal-based and Acrylic based partial Dentures within
the various components of the Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg and Mitchell’s
Plain platform. Continuous development and obtaining technical skills required
for optimal Teaching and Learning, Service delivery and Research.
Administrative duties. Deliver service over the ORAL Health Centre platform of
Tygerberg and Mitchell’s Plain. Must be able to function as part of dental team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MV. Adams Tel No: (021) 937-3068
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant Dental Technician posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/126 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Appropriate three-year National Diploma
or Degree. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Driver's license (Code B/EB) Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial treasury instructions, SCM and financial
delegations and accounting officer system finance Instructions. Experience in
financial year end reporting procedures (AFS/IFS). Practical experience of
LOGIS and BAS. Good written and verbal communication skills, Good
management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and as part
of a team. Experience in management of debts and loss control processes.
Computer skill (Power Point, Advance Excel, Microsoft word.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall supply chain management functions which includes
demand, acquisition, logistic, assets and Disposal management, ensure
timeous and accurate compilation of monthly, quarterly finance and SCM
reporting (Note 41&42, Bas and Logis Reconciliation is done), compile report
for IFS/AFS disclosure inputs. Oversee expenditure, revenue, patient
administration and ensure that Suppliers are paid within 30 days. Functioning
of patient administration and revenue component. Ensure effective and
efficient assets and warehouse management procedures are implemented to
ensure optimal utilization of resources and timeous distribution of stock to end-
users. Perform secretariat/advisory functions in the quotation committee
meeting. Perform system controller functions and all system approval on EPS
and LOGIS are done in accordance with applicable delegation of authority if
91
applicable. Management of staff including staff performance, R&S process,
training, disciplinary process and general support of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. DM Pick Tel No: (021) 808-6112
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/127 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree within Human Resource Management, Labour Law,
Administration or Public Administration. Experience: Appropriate experience in
PERSAL, Appropriate experience in labour relations. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB/) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the
Southern Western sub-structure geographical area. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office package). Ability to work
under pressure, meet deadlines and maintain confidentiality. Ability to work
independently and in a team with good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the effective functioning of the IMLC’s and act as secretariat for the
IMLC. Maintain and report on labour relations statistics. Facilitation of training
for all staff with regards to labour relations issues. Assist with preparation for
conciliation and arbitration and represent where required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Petersen Tel No: (021) 202 0956
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Senior Administrative Officer:
Labour Relations posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for
a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/128 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT (PROJECTS) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in infrastructure projects. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Project management skills Good written and verbal
communication skills Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate small scale projects Provide logistical support for large scale
projects including site meetings with contractors and external stakeholders.
Ensure routine maintenance is carried out according to schedule and
coordinate urgent maintenance projects. Assist with drafting of infrastructure
tender and contract documents. Perform infrastructure contract management
functions. Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Kombol Tel No: (021) 404-3261
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/129 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Overberg District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate working experience of Support Services (i.e. laundry,
food services, security, cleaning, contract management, telecommunication
services, maintenance, medical waste, infrastructure and corporate
government of support services). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime
92
when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication,
interpersonal and organisational skills. Ability to maintain confidentiality.
Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint, emails).
DUTIES : Effective management and supervision for the support sections including
security services, technical services, linen bank, telecommunication and
medical waste, food services, housekeeping, maintenance and infrastructure.
Effective management of out-sourced contract services. Perform HR functions
and Development of Support Services personnel and general support to
Medical Manager general support to Assistant Director: HR and Facility
Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Fudu Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test. No payment of any
kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/130 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X3
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate to other departments
according to operational requirements. Willingness to work within a shift
system. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and
weekend cover for nursing. Willingness to work overtime if needed. Willingness
to rotate to other departments according to operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy. Planning and
organisational skills. The ability to function independently under pressure.
Knowledge and insight into protocols and policies pertaining to nursing
practices in a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of Human, Physical and
Financial resources. Participation in training and research. Provision of support
to Nursing Services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Diedricks Tel No: (021) 659-5570
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)” The pool of applicants will be considered for
similar other vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
93
POST 25/131 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC) (5/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R248 271 per annum
Grade 2: R289 962 per annum
Grade 3: R339 438 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer in Diagnostic.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiography in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the Radiography (Diagnostic)
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Render a 25 hour
service as determined by the department. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of protocols, radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment
safety. Good interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of a
multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication
Systems and Radiology Information Systems.
DUTIES : Provide a Radiographic service. Produce diagnostic images of high quality.
Optimal patient care. Safe use and care of equipment. Accurate record
keeping. Assist with training of community service Radiographers and
students. Participate in continuing professional development activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Arendse Tel No: (021) 799-1173 / email:
Roger.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/132 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (MECHANICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Metro West, Zwaanswyk Mobile Wokshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and
willing to travel throughout the Western Cape. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act.
94
DUTIES : Perform standby duties. Perform necessary administrative functions. Control
over tools and materials. Train and supervision of subordinates. Assist with the
execution of the installation and repairs of mechanical components at hospitals
and health institutions. Maintenance of mechanical components (including
autoclaves) at health institutions within the Western Cape Province. Assist
Artisan Foremen/Chief Artisan with their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Matthews Tel No: (021) 715-5921
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/133 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate relevant administration, coordination and training
experience in People /Skills development. Appropriate experience of PERSAL.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Willingness
and ability to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge
and understanding of Skills Development. In-dept knowledge of applicable
legislation and Skills Development policies. Excellent interpersonal skills and
communication. Capacity to plan, organise and control own work environment
by setting appropriate priorities and achieving set objectives within a given time
frame.
DUTIES : Assist in the development and Implementation of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP). Co-ordination of people development strategies and projects:
Bursaries, Adult Learning, Work Integrated learning. Administer and supervise
the Volunteer /Internship programmes and report to the line manager. Co-
Ordinate orientation and Induction for employees and arrange Career days for
interns and Volunteers. Facilitation and presentation of training. Provide a
secretarial service to the Skills development and Wellness committee. Provide
and ensure effective support to relevant line management within the
component. Capture of data and maintenance of databases. Ad-Hoc tasks may
be required from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Hendrik Lewies or Hendrik.Lewies@westerncape.gov.za (021 860 2683)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/134 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(WAREHOUSE)
Directorate: Health Technology
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Clinical Engineering, Goodwood)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a technical and health commodities warehouse environment. Appropriate
experience in Supply Chain Management and Finance. Inherent requirement
of the job: Ability and willingness to bear (carry and move) heavy goods withing
the storage areas. Strong cooperative and collaborative characteristics to
promote and advance good teamwork. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sound theoretical and practical knowledge of Supply Chain Management with
specific knowledge of warehouse functions/modules in LOGIS or Stock
Management System. Sound practical knowledge of the government’s
Electronic Procurements System (ePS). Sound knowledge of the Accounting
Officer System. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook, Teams). Ability to supervise and train junior
staff.
DUTIES : Demand and Acquisition Management-Capture requisitions. Receive and issue
inventory accurately within prescribed timeframes to end users. Ensure
95
accurate stock control i.e. verify stock levels, do spot checks, maintain min/max
levels, complete bin cards. Manage inventory effectively in terms of the storage
and safe keeping of items. Place orders timeously and ensure continuous stock
availability (zero stock outs). Assist with the preparation of inputs for the annual
financial statements (inventory). Assist supervisor with supervision of junior
staff and assistants. Perform the functions of the store’s buyer on ePS, from
capturing events to adjudication. Liaise closely with the end-users on
evaluations of quotations. Liaise and follow-up with suppliers on orders. Ensure
compliance with applicable safety regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Lutchman Tel No: (021) 590-5005
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/135 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cederberg Sub-district: (Stationed at Citrusdal Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management. Appropriate
experience of Health Information Systems (HIS), eg. TIER.NET, EDR, PHCIS,
SINJANI and Ideal Clinic. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work overtime. Willing to assist and
relief at other PHC Clinics within the Cederberg Sub-district. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Good organizing skills. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate working knowledge of current computer
software systems utilized by the Department of Health. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel and Powerpoint). Appropriate office administration, training and
presentation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure effective data quality in information management. Effective data
compilation for submission using information systems. Effective support
services. Assist with collection and collation of data for monitoring and
evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Sr M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482 1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/136 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Patient Admissions including the
Clinicom System. Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work 12-hour
shifts (which include night duty, weekends and public holidays) and work
overtime on short notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to accept accountability
and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Registration and capturing patient information on Clinicom. Recordkeeping,
filing, retrieving, tracing of folders, destruction and opening folders. Assessing
patients according to the means test (income). Cash Management.
Switchboard and patient enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Van Staden Tel No: (021) 816 8568, Email:
Nadia.vanstaden@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
96
POST 25/137 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative and data capturing experience.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work 12-hour shifts (which include
night duty, weekends, and public holidays) and work overtime on short notice.
Must be willing to rotate and/or relief other personnel in the hospital and sub
district when needed. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
drive. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written
and verbal) and interpersonal skills, with internal and external clients. Ability to
work independently, and as part of a team. Ability to maintain confidentiality
and problem-solving and conflict management skills, with good organisational
skills. Computer literacy in Ms Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Admission of patients, including correct patient assessment and accurate
data/information capturing. Ensure correct management of patient folders at
reception area. Recordkeeping, compile new, retrieve file, trace lost and
manage duplicates and old folders as well as maintain a record system and
archive. Accurate collection, safekeeping and deposit of state money. Deal with
written and or telephonic queries / enquiries with regards to patient admission
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Maritz Tel No: (023) 414 – 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/138 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (SUPPORT)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Parkdene CC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Health Information Systems (PHCIS,
Sinjani, Tier.Net/ETR and Ideal clinic capturing). Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to rotate between clinics in the sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Package (MS
Windows, Word and Excel, Outlook). Appropriate knowledge of record keeping
procedures, Registry and Archive policy. Appropriate knowledge and
experience in Departmental systems, (PHCIS, Sinjani, Tier .net/ETR and Ideal
clinic capturing). The ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to
work independently and unsupervised. Good communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Perform an effective administrative role as a member of the Health
Management Team. Record keeping, filing and retrieving of folders, tracing of
old folders and compiling of new folders, destruction of folders. Maintenance
of effective Registry Plus functions. Completion of registration and updating of
patient information. Effective data management and administer quality
monitoring. Effective data capturing, interpreting and analyses data trends.
Present data for monthly Facility meeting. Effective support to the Supervisor
and other Stakeholders in line with the Departmental Leadership Behaviour
Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
97
POST 25/139 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST BASIC)
(WAREHOUSING)(7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Medicine Management, Laboratory and Blood Services Support (Cape Medical
Depot)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic). Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant Post Basic OR Pharmacist Assistant Post
Basic (Warehousing). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and/or experience in handling pharmaceutical
supplies particularly in a warehouse environment, including Cold Chain
Practices. Knowledge of Drug Supply Management Principles. Good
knowledge of wholesale warehouse practices and procedures. Good literacy
and numeric skills. Meticulous and attention to detail. Computer literacy in
Microsoft Office 365 (Outlook, Word & Excel).
DUTIES : Assist with the receiving and storage of pharmaceutical products from
suppliers. Assist with the control of pharmaceutical stock. Assist with the
Issuing of stock against orders from health facilities within the scope of practice
of a Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant. Assist with the efficient and secure
packaging of pharmaceutical products for delivery. Assist with the effective
control and distribution of completed pharmaceutical orders to facilities.
Compliance with good pharmacy practice and good warehouse practice.
Support and assist the Pharmacy Supervisor with collating statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Geswind Tel No: (021) 483-2266
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants may be considered for other vacant Pharmacist Assistant (Post
Basic) Grade 1 to 3 posts within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical
Support Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/140 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Metro Health Services, Southern Western Sub-structure
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Greenpoint CDC (X1 Post)
Mamre CDC (X1 Post)
District Six CDC (X1 Post)
Vanguard CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allow registration with
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as an Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years recognisable
nursing experience as an enrolled nurse after registration with the SANC
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years recognisable experience as an enrolled nurse
after registration with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness
to work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts, weekends,
and public holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational needs. Willingness to render relief duties at the PHC platform within
Southern Western Sub-structure when necessary. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms.
Knowledge of Nursing Practices and IPC, control measures and practices.
98
Ability to lift and turn patients, stand long hours and lift heavy equipment. Good
communication skills. Basic computer literacy. Self-discipline. Motivation.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical
and financial resources. Maintain professional growth and ethical standards
and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Marcus Tel No: (021) 810-4508; Ms N Beukes Tel No: (021) 833- 5405;
Dr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 695- 8242
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. The pool of applicants will be considered
for other vacant Staff Nurse posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/141 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, day and night duty and overtime. Willingness to rotate to other
wards within the hospital when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take actions to improve
quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Oerson Tel No: (028) 713-8686
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/142 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Overberg District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital
99
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate cleaning, linen and
housekeeping experience in a health facility environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s license. Willingness to
work overtime and provide relief work in other departments and assist at other
facility within sub-districts to ensure effective provision of services.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Understanding hospital waste management,
linen management, Hospital catering, Infection prevention and Control, and
OHS. Knowledge of inventory/stock control, ability to manage hospital hygiene
audits and ability to count. Ability to supervise and discipline staff members and
to optimally utilise housekeeping staff. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and
Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for overall control, organising, performing, and coordinating tasks
related to linen, waste management and hygiene services and maintaining a
high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the hospital as well as audit
and evaluate hospital hygiene standards. Manage infection control and health
and safety policies. Effectively manage the utilisation of physical and material
resources in accordance with legislation and policies. Supervise, manage and
coordinate the housekeeping and laundry teams, and implement disciplinary
procedures when required. Effective communication, and assistance provided
to supervisors, colleagues, and management to assist with improved service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Wege Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/143 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspoort Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work overtime. Willingness to rotate to other clinics within
the sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills. Self-discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Frieslaar Tel No: (023) 416-1600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
100
POST 25/144 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INPATIENT SERVICES)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, public holidays and overtime.
Willingness to rotate within the facility and to work at other clinics in the Sub-
district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
skills. Self-discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Oerson Tel No: (028) 713-8686
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/145 : GENERAL WORKER STORES
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a stores environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability to work independently and
in a team.
DUTIES : Deliver stock to wards, departments, theatres and administration building.
Ensure issue vouchers are returned to the relevant clerk to capture and file.
Assist the clerk with receiving, packing, unpacking, storage and issuing of stock
according to standards. Safekeeping of equipment and stock (consumables
and inventory) in the stores. Assist in ensuring effective Stock Control
procedures are maintained and enforced. Assist clerk with stock take and
general duties. Keep the store neat, tidy and clean to comply with safety
regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Rhode Tel No: (021) 860 2896 or Anwil.Rhode@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/146 : CLEANER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Fisantekraal CDC
101
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a Health facility and Hospital environment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills. Appropriate
knowledge with the use of the cleaning equipment and cleaning materials.
DUTIES : Provide a clean and hygienic environment to prevent the spread of infection.
General cleaning and maintenance (dusting, sweeping, vacuuming, polishing,
scrubbing and mopping). Effective utilization of cleaning materials and
equipment. Ensure that cleaning equipment is clean after usage and securely
stored. Effectively use cleaning agents and stock as well as elementary stock
control. Responsible for general hygienic and safe environment in terms of
standard and procedures. Optimal support to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Ntlabathi-Forosi Tel No: (021) 826-2202
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/147 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy numeracy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in general laundry functions. Inherent requirement of
the job: Willingness to work overtime, e.g. after- working hours, weekends and
public holidays when operational needs require. Physically fit and be able to
hear and speak clearly. Perform hard physical tasks, e.g. pushing heavy linen
trolleys to and from the linen bank and wards. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Perform basic routine tasks in the linen bank under
supervision. Perform hard physical tasks, e.g. pushing heavy linen trolleys to
and from the linen bank and wards. Ability to sort, sluice and count linen of dirty
and fouled linen. Knowledge of stock and infection control.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness, hygienic and safe environment.
Provide a supporting service to the supervisor. Daily collection of dirty, fouled
and infected linen (in bags) from wards to the linen bank. Delivering of clean
linen to the wards. Daily sorting, counting and sluicing of dirty linen prior to
transfer of linen to Central Laundry. Daily issuing, unpacking and checking of
clean linen.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. WJ Owen Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/148 : GENERAL WORKER: STORES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Warehouse environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a team. Ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written). Ability to pick up heavy boxes/bags, equipment and to
pack and transport items to various locations within the Hospital. Willingness
to assist with stock-taking. Knowledge of Hospital consumable items.
Knowledge of Warehouse Layout.
DUTIES : Assist the storekeepers with the handling of the stock. Receive and issue
goods. Deliver store stock to end-users. Rotate store stock (first in, first out).
Perform certain messenger duties between the stores and other departments
within the hospital environment when required. Clean various stores and non-
storage areas within the main stores. Assist in the other stores when required.
Ad-hoc duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Willemse Tel No: (021) 402-6459
102
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/149 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT (LAUNDRY AND LINEN SERVICES) (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Meto Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience of handling linen within a health environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime, after- working hours,
weekends and public holidays when operationally required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Perform hard physical tasks, e.g. lifting of heavy linen bags
to and from the linen bank and wards Knowledge of stock and infection control.
Knowledge in the correct methods of handling, sorting and counting of linen.
Basic knowledge in washing and sluicing of linen.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness, hygienic and safe environment. Daily
collection of dirty, fouled and infected linen (in bags) from wards to the linen
bank. Delivering of clean linen to the wards. Daily sorting, counting and sluicing
of dirty linen prior to transfer of linen to Central Laundry. Daily issuing,
unpacking and checking of clean linen. Provide a supporting service to the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs A Brandt Tel No: (021) 830-2704
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/150 : STERILISATION PRODUCTION OPERATOR (5/8 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R102 300 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a CSSD
setting in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts (day and night duty), including weekends and public holidays.
Physically fit to lift heavy objects, push heavy trolleys, bend down, and stay on
feet for long hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
relations skills. Ability to work in a co-operative way within a team context.
Basic literacy, both written and verbally.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver soiled and clean linen and packs to and from theatre and
wards. Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and
promote/adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontaminate, pack and sterilisation of instruments, linen, and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, washing machines
and autoclaves. Maintain equipment in an optimum working condition. Cost
effective utilisation of resources, monitor, control and maintain adequate stock
levels. Report and assist with investigation of lost instruments/equipment.
Support to the supervisor and team members.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Roman Tel No: (028) 212 1071
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subject to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
103
POST 25/151 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY) 30
HOURS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R612 per hour
Grade 2: R698 per hour
Grade 3: R809 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to
successfully run an extremely busy Urology service on a district level. Valid
Driver’s licence. Appropriate experience in trauma and emergency Urology
surgery. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong ethical principles and
relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-,
interpersonal- and organisational skills. Tertiary knowledge and skills in the
field of emergency Urology as well as district level elective Urology.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum
of general Urologic Surgery. The specialist primary responsibility would be
trauma and emergency Urology at district level. Provision of clinical service
delivery at specialist level of elective Urology Surgery (district level).
Supervision of clinical and operative activities of Urology surgeons- in- training.
Active participation in the postgraduate and undergraduate teaching
programmes of the Division of Urology. Effective management and
administration of a wide range of “Portfolios” and develop, conduct and
supervise research projects. Training and Teaching of medical officers and
Urology registrars and relevant burden of disease Research and Audits.
ENQUIRIES : Prof H Bougard Tel No: (021) 402-6444
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. -33 Sessional specialist
hours per week available for Urology. Please note the sessional appointment
will not exceed 20 hours per week per employee. Sessional allocation will be
discussed during the selection process.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/152 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (35 SESSIONS) NHI
West Coast District
Contract till 31 March 2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
104
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Must be able to perform the full spectrum of District level services with a
specific focus on primary health care. This includes management of chronic
diseases, HIV and TB care. Must be able to handle all emergency cases as
required at District level.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision. Forensic service provision. Service management.
Training, Development and Research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TV Zimri Tel No: (022) 709-7208
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/153 : MEDICAL OFFICER SESSIONAL (14 HOURS PER WEEK) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract Post)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Substructure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
105
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel
and perform relief duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in general medical and surgical conditions on PHC level.
Experience of South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including drug
resistant TB and HIV in children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and
willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Northern/Tygerberg Sub-District, guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure
Primary Health Care facilities. Provide outreach and support service to old age
homes. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and academic
opportunities relevant to the post. Clinical governance of Northern/Tygerberg
Sub-district facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AE Patientia Tel No: (021) 815-8895
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
POST 25/154 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (35 SESSIONS - NHI)
West Coast District
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Citrusdal Clinic, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. One (1) year’s relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of Five (5) appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of six (6)
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees,
of whom required to perform community service required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of Ten (10) year’s appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of eleven (11) year’s relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Good organizing skills. Willingness to
travel and do after hour’s clinical work. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Clinical service provision in primary health care approach – accurate and
chronic care. Must be able to manage all emergencies at primary health care
level. Strong clinical knowledge of TB and HIV care. Minor surgical procedures
(at primary health care level). Must be able to do BANC sonars. Must be able
106
to render antenatal care. Must be able to render basic forensic services – J88
sexual assault evaluations. Prove management competencies in a health care
environment. Computer literacy (MS word, Excel, PowerPoint, Internet and e-
mail.)
DUTIES : Clinical service provision (PHC). Surgical and emergency services provision
(PHC). Clinical, paediatric, antenatal and obstetric (mother and child) services
provision (PHC). Forensic service provision. Service management. Training
and development and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Adams Tel No: (027) 482-2166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-district, for
a period of three months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
107