PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 16 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 15 MAY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: Kindly note that the following 2 posts
were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 08 May 2026,
Handyman with Ref No: 3/3/1/31/2026 and Household Aid with Ref No:
3/3/1/32/2026; has been amended as follows: Handyman (X2 posts) and
Household Aid (X2 posts) salary R144 024 per annum (Level 02).
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
BASIC EDUCATION A 03 - 05
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE B 06 - 08
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES C 09 - 12
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE D 13 - 14
DEFENCE E 15 - 23
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY F 24 - 25
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR G 26 - 35
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT H 36 - 40
HEALTH I 41 - 45
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING J 46 - 52
HOME AFFAIRS K 53 - 59
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE L 60 - 61
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES M 62 - 64
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT N 65 - 70
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES O 71 - 73
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE P 74 - 77
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION Q 78 - 79
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE R 80 - 104
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT S 105 - 110
TOURISM T 111 - 113
TREASURY U 114 - 118
WATER AND SANITATION V 119 - 121
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE W 122 - 125
GAUTENG X 126 - 133
KWAZULU NATAL Y 134 - 154
LIMPOPO Z 155 - 157
MPUMALANGA AA 158 - 184
NORTHERN CAPE BB 185 - 195
WESTERN CAPE CC 196 - 281
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Mahape/Ms N Kumalo
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
requirements will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date or faxed applications will not be considered. Note: A Certificate for SMS
pre-entry programme is required for all SMS appointments, the full details of
the outlined requirements and course information can be sourced by following
the link https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/01 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
REF NO: DBE/26/2026
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Curriculum Implementation and Monitoring
Applicants who previously applied need not re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor’s degree (NQF
level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; Five years’
experience at a Senior managerial level and in high level planning and
management; Extensive knowledge, insight and experience in the broad
education policy framework that guides the provision of education in South
African schools, curriculum development and support as it applies to the
3
National Curriculum Framework (NCF) for the 0-4 years old as well as the
National Curriculum Statement and Curriculum Assessment Policy Statement
(CAPS) for Grades R to 12.Process Competencies: Knowledge Management;
Service Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Oriented,
customer focus and communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic
capability and Leadership; Programme and project management; Financial
Management; Knowledge management; People management and
Empowerment; Promotion of communication, Innovation and Creativity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership,
managing, guiding and supporting the Chief Directorate: Curriculum
Implementation and Monitoring in its objective to improve the quality of Basic
Education for the 0-4 years olds in Grades R to 12 through improving teacher
capacity and practices; Increasing learner participation and success rate to
meet the National Development Plan and Action Plan 2019 towards Schooling
2030; Collaborating with state institutions, National and International Bodies as
well as NGO’s; Developing and ensuring implementation of Norms and
Standards in line with section 3 and 8 of the National Education Policy Act;
Strengthening School Based Assessment to enhance teaching practice;
Developing and implementing a strategy to promote the utilisation of data to
enhance teaching quality and efficiency; Developing and implementing
business processes on the work done to inform Norms and Standards;
Improving the quality of Early Childhood Development (ECD); Improving the
access of children to qualify for ECD below Grade 1 as well as the grade
promotion of learners through Grade 1 to 9 phases of school; Improving the
access of Inclusive Education; Ensuring that all children remain effectively
enrolled in school up to the year in which they turn 15; Development and
maintaining of policies and programmes to ensure quality implementation of
the NCF and the CAPS, including having responsibility for quality programmes
for children experiencing barriers to learning; Increasing the number of learners
in Grade 6 who have mastered the minimum language and mathematics
competencies; Increase the number of learners in Grade 9 who by the end of
the year have mastered the minimum language and mathematics
competencies; Implementation of the IIAL and GET Strategy and increasing
the number of Grade 12 learners who became eligible for a Bachelor’s
programme at University.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291/ Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398
POST 16/02 : DIRECTOR: TEACHER DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
DBE/27/2025
Branch: Teachers, Education Human Resources and Institutional Development
Chief Directorate: Curriculum and Professional Development Institute
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of relevant Bachelor’s degree (NQF level
7) or equivalent as recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ experience at Middle/Senior
Managerial level in the Education sector; Extensive experience in the field of
institution and employee performance management; An in depth knowledge
and understanding of the strategies for teacher support and development,
including capacity to integrate ICT and other innovative strategies; The
capacity to undertake research, impact assessment, monitoring, evaluation,
and reporting will be an added advantage; Understanding of the education
sector; Good computer skills including MS Word, MS Excel and MS Power
Point; Ability to work under pressure; A valid driver’s license and be willing to
travel extensively. Process Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service
Delivery Innovation; Client Orientation; Customer Focus; Communication
Skills; Problem Solving and Analysis. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity;
Leadership; People Management; Empowerment; Financial Management;
Change Management; Trustworthy, accurate, adaptable, diplomatic; Valid
driver’s license and willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating, monitoring, and
supporting teacher development programmes in provinces in line with the DBE
priorities, including conducting of impact assessments; Developing frameworks
for programme development; Developing strategies to improve and support
school and educator performance; Driving content development and curation
of digital resources for teacher support and for teaching and learning;
Promoting active utilization of ICT platforms for professional development;
4
Monitoring and evaluating teacher development initiatives; Providing strategic
leadership and manage finances in line with PFMA; Providing strategic
leadership to staff and develop annual plans; Supporting the use of the online
Teacher Development Platform and other innovative practices to build the
capacity of teachers; Managing the finances of the Directorate in line with the
Public Finance Management Act; Identifying key blockages to effective and
timeous planning and implementation of key sector mandates and priorities;
Compiling quarterly analytic reports for HEDCOM and CEM to guide sector
improvement practice; Facilitating the sharing of best practice.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291/Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service is an equal opportunity, and gender sensitive employer and it
is the intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Secretariat for Police service is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
employment.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered or couriered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street,
Fedsure Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026. NB: Please ensure that your application reaches this office not
later than 16h00 on weekdays.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating positions
held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interviews following communication from the Department. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend the most suitable candidate. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance. The Secretary of Police Service has the right
not to fill the post. All posts are based in Pretoria. Preference will be given to
youth, people with disability and women in accordance with our employment
equity. No late applications will be accepted. Failure to comply with this
requirement will result in the candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/03 : OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: CSP/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF 6) in in Public Administration/Business
Administration/Business Management/Public Management or equivalent
qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in Office Administration/Executive
Administrative environment, inclusive of three (3) years’ experience at
Assistant Director Level. Knowledge of Government Systems and Structures.
Understanding of the management of information and formal government
reporting systems. Proven knowledge of office administration/office
management and professional office etiquette. Knowledge of the Public
Service Act and Regulations; Public Finance Management Act; Supply Chain
Management procedures; performance management and development
systems. Knowledge of International Relations in the Public Service context.
Knowledge of the broader Public Service Policy Framework. An analytical
approach to problem solving, strong communication (written and verbal) skills.
Presentation and facilitation skills, Project Management, planning and
organizing skills and ability to interact with all levels and functions, including
senior management. Ability to work under pressure and to work long hours
when required. Ability to travel when required.
DUTIES : To render executive and strategic support to Secretary for Police Service.
Establish, maintain and update both manual and electronic Documents
Management System in the Office of the Secretary for Police Service.
Coordinate correspondence management, including the screening, reading,
quality assuring and prioritising submissions and other relevant
documentation. Obtain inputs, collate and compile monthly progress and other
6
reports. Categorise and prioritise submissions in the Office of the Secretary for
Police Service and prepare advisory notes on submissions as required.
Develop and monitor the implementation of protocols for the effective
functioning of the Office of the Secretary for Police Service, in line with internal
policies and procedures. Provide Secretariat Services for EXCO, MANCO,
HODs and other high level meetings chaired by the Secretary for Police
Service. Coordinate meetings and provide updates in respect of activities
resulting from decisions taken in meetings chaired by the Secretary for Police
Service such as EXCO, MANCO, HODs Forum, etc. Provide support to the
MINMEC Secretariat comprising of the CSPS and SAPS. Provide support on
special projects undertaken by the Executive Support Directorate on behalf of
the Secretary for Police Service. Coordinate the HODs PMDS process for the
Secretary for Police Service, in collaboration with Human Resources
Development. Compile quarterly reports on activities in the Office of the
Secretary for Police Service. Liaise with the Ministry and the Department of
Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation to ensure timeous and compliant
submission of the Secretary’s performance documents. Keep a record of
expenditure commitments, monitor expenditure for the Executive Support
Directorate and the Office of the Secretary for Police Service. Supervise junior
staff and learners in the Executive Support Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms HP Masoma Tel No: (012) 493 1397
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be emailed to OF-Manager@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured, Indian and White Males and Females in
accordance with our employment equity plan.
POST 16/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESEARCH REF NO: CSP/08/2026
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Social
Science/Data Science/ Statistics, Economics, or relevant equivalent
qualification. Three (3) years’ proven experience in conducting impact
research. Proven experience regarding research on the impact of policies,
strategies and procedures. Experience on conducting impact analysis to
determine effectiveness and efficiency. Promote the use of science to promote
violence prevention and public safety, including testing sustainability and
scalability of interventions. Proven proficiency in applying evidenced-based
research designs, including experimental designs, quasi-experimental
designs, cohorts design, longitudinal design, and survey research.
Demonstrate practical knowledge and extensive experience on impact
research. Application of advanced quantitative research methodologies and
procedures. Experience with research softwares such as SPSS, Stata, Python,
Ms Excel. Advanced data visualisation: ability to create dashboards, GIS
mapping, Tableau, Power BI will be an added advantage. Advanced experience
of quantitative research procedures. Advanced analytical skills;
communication, research report writing and presentation skills, minimal
supervision and project management, planning and organising, team
leadership, problem solving and decision making skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct evidenced-based research including quasi-experimental designs,
cohorts design, longitudinal designs, survey research, longitudinal,
experimental designs. Undertake quantitative impact analysis of legislation,
policies and strategies on crime & violence prevention. Conduct primary and
secondary research. Provide desktop research. Render research support
through an active role in research planning including contribution to the
Research Agenda development and review; and drafting of concept note,
terms of reference and proposal to support research project; and identify
research topics. Develop and apply quantitative, evidenced-based and impact
research methodologies that is appropriate for the study, compile sampling
plan and criteria for each research projects. Prepare interview tools and
maintain accurate records of interviews. Develop and apply innovative and
sound data collection/analysis systems for quantitative studies. Plan and
manage field work processes. Conduct literature reviews and collects data.
Conduct advanced quantitative data analysis, including causal inferences.
Prepares briefing notes, facts sheets reports, other articles, and presentations.
Undertake comparative research with national and international research
institutions. Compiles research reports based on analysed data. Develop
evidenced-based recommendations for the respective project. Provide
7
summaries for respective research reports. Coordinate supply chain, research
publication and dissemination processes. Prepare progress reports, coordinate
the respective research project according to project management principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Phomane Tel No: (012) 4931 439
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to ASD-Research@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured, Indian and White Males and Females in
accordance with our employment equity plan.
POST 16/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION REF NO:
CSP/09/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) /
Bachelor’s degree in Supply Chain Management / Logistics or Purchasing
Management or relevant SCM qualification. Three (3) years’ experience in
Supply Chain environment at a supervisory level. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury-related legislations. Knowledge of Contract
management and leasing processes, Supply Chain Management policies and
procedures, BAS and LOGIS system. Computer literacy, communication skills,
presentation and project Management skills. Planning and organizing, problem
solving and decision-making skills. Leadership and facilitation skills. Valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review and execute the Bidding process. Provide secretariat
support services to the Departmental Bid Specification Committee, Acquisition
Committee and Bid Evaluation Committee. Compile Bid documents. Publish
Tender invitations. Conduct research on the relevant identified procurement
needs. Analyse and determine requirements for implementation. Assess and
interpret the results of the research conducted on the market. Recommend
proposals for procurement methodology. Ensure compliance with quality
requirements. Coordinate the review of the Annual Procurement Plan. Analyse
the information and engage with business units regarding the annual
procurement. Confirm availability of budget with Finance unit/Business Units.
Check alignment of the procurement plan against strategic goals and
objectives. Consolidate the information collected into the procurement plan and
table for approval by the Accounting Officer. Compile Terms of Reference/
specifications to invite service providers for an expression of interest. Receive,
evaluate and recommend the expressions of interest for approval/adjudication.
Coordinate, review and source quotations from the Central Supplier Database
(CSD). Receive, compile and recommend submissions (SCM3’s) for approval.
Manage the rotation of suppliers. Quality assures information on the supplier
database. Management of Resources (Human Resource, Financial Resource
and Equipment/Asset).
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to ASD-DemandAqui@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured, Indian and White Males and Females in
accordance with our employment equity plan.
8
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular, the persons with
disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
link quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link requires applicants to
use a Google account.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted with two (2) attachments: 1. A Z83 Form (2021
version), obtainable from the DPSA website (Z83 editable) and 2. A recently
updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Each post advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialed and signed by the applicant. Applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications obtained and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from
Human Resources and will be subjected to verification by the South African
Qualifications Authority. Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification
must also provide an evaluation certificate issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered further.
Due to the anticipated large volume of responses, correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-
entry assessments, an oral interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). By
responding to the advertisement, applicants consent to the collection,
processing and storing of their Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates
will therefore be required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for
the Department to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the
purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the
position/vacancy you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any
conflict or perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership on
Boards and directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted
within six (6) months of the closing date, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The CVs submitted will be destroyed as legislated in the
National Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the
Department will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as
required by policies. All the information requested now or during the process is
required for recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information
will result in your application not being considered further. The Department
reserves the right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The
successful candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial
interests and sign an employment contract within one month from the date of
assumption of duty. A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed
within three months from the date of assumption of duty. Note for applicants of
SMS posts: Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government,
available as an online course on https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/, prior to the finalization of the appointment, is a
requirement for all SMS positions. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment, using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools.
9
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/06 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: CFO
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7/ Degree in Finance/ Accounting/ or the relevant
equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority. Registration as a Chartered Accountant will be an added advantage.
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in financial management covering
Accounting, Budgeting, Reporting and Asset Management at the Senior
Managerial level. Skills / Competencies and Knowledge: Strategic Capabilities
and Leadership, Government Administrative Processes, People Management
and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Change
Management, Financial Management and Stakeholder Management, Problem
solving and analysis, Customer focus, Stakeholder Engagement and
Relationship Management. Financial Accounting, Management Accounting,
Property and Facility Management, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA,
General Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and Modified Cash Standard
(MSC). Supply Chain Management, Basic accounting system (BAS) and other
transversal systems, Internal control, procedure, policies, Finance standard
operating procedures.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to oversee the provision of financial management
and reporting services. The successful candidate will oversee the delivery of
Financial Management Services. Oversee and monitor the provision of
Logistics, Travel and Asset Management Services and Supply Chain
Management. Execute all responsibilities delegated by the Accounting Officer
in terms of Sections 38 to 43 of the PFMA. Maintain an integrated accounting
and financial management system, including financial reporting and internal
control. Oversee budgetary processes (Medium term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF), Adjustment Estimates of national expenditure (AENE), Estimates of
National Expenditure (ENE), reprioritisation, movement of funds) within the
department and ensure alignment with strategic objectives and the
Departmental entities (Ensure strict adherence to the provisions of the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (Act 5 of 2000). Oversee the
preparation and submission of quarterly and annual financial statements,
including other financial reports and liaise with National Treasury and the
Auditor-General. Participate in policy formulation and review by rendering
advice to the Executive Authority, Accounting Officer and Senior Management
on financial matters and financial consequences thereof. Ability to robustly
engage key stakeholders and relevant role players such as National Treasury,
Auditor General, management, governance and oversight structures, as well
as relevant entities’ management in the finance environment regarding
transversal financial matters. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic
functional leadership, managing human resources, managing financial
resources, driving change and operational excellence, as well as managing
and ensuring compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms N
Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : application link: https://forms.gle/o7TSNgp1VbVnX8qC7
POST 16/07 : DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS, TRAVEL AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DIRLTAM
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and drive the provision of logistics,
payments, orders, travel and asset management to the department.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7/ Degree in Business Financial Management/
Commerce/ Accounting/ Supply Chain Management/ Logistics/ Finance or
10
relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority. Honours degree will be an added advantage. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Logistics, Payments and Orders,
Travel and Asset management environment at middle/senior management
level. Skills / Competencies and Knowledge: Strategic Capabilities and
Leadership, Government Administrative Processes, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Problem
solving and analysis, Customer focus, Stakeholder Engagement and
Relationship Management. Supply Chain Management, BAS and LOGIS, Fleet
and Travel Management, Asset Management, PFMA, Risk Management and
Modified Cash Standards.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Manage and drive the development and
implementation of logistics, payments, orders, travel and asset management
policies, strategy and services. Manage the acquisition, use, maintenance,
losses, and disposal of assets in line with relevant policies, prescripts,
legislation, and instruction notes. Manage and drive the preparation of monthly,
quarterly, and annual asset reconciliations between the Asset Register and
ledger and report in the financial statements (AFS). Submit various compliance
reports to National Treasury, Management and AFS. Manage and coordinate
logistics services (the processing of LOGIS orders and payments). Liaise with
service providers and review, verify, and audit invoices and performance
reports to ensure compliance with contractual terms, value for money, and
effective service delivery. Manage and direct the coordination of fleet and asset
management processes and procedures in the Department. Manage and
process warranty claims, authorise returns, reverse logistics and stock
transfers. Manage and drive the ordering, delivery, and checking and the
efficient flow of goods in and out of the stores. Manage, inform, guide and
advise departmental employees on asset and inventory disposal management
processes to promote correct implementation of sound disposal management
practices. Manage travel management, from orders to payments to reporting.
Manage and direct the maintenance of the invoice tracking system to ensure
payments are made within 30 days. Contributing to key result areas such as
strategic functional leadership, managing human resources, managing
financial resources and driving change and operational excellence.
Responsible for governance and compliance within the Directorate,
implementation and reporting thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms N
Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : application link: https://forms.gle/YhKxzshv2cs4Gfiw7
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/08 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF NO: PCS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to provide administrative support to the executive
authority on matters relating to Parliament / the legislature and Cabinet /
executive council.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 / 7 qualification in Political Science / Public
Administration / Business Administration or relevant equivalent qualification as
recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of five (5)
years’ experience of which three (3) years should be at an Assistant Director
level / middle management or equivalent working experience in Office
Administration environment. Skills / Competencies and Knowledge: Broad
knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the executive
authority’s portfolio, knowledge of Minister’s operations, proven management
competencies, working knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes
in South Africa, computer literacy and communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will monitor events in Parliament / legislature to
identify matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister, this will inter
alia entail peruse like Hansard speeches, minutes of portfolio and standing
committees and monitor meetings of legislative structures to identify matters
11
that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister, liaise with structures like
portfolio and standing committees on matters that that have a bearing on the
portfolio of the Minister and brief departments on decision taken. Render an
efficient and effective parliamentary service, this will inter alia entail facilitate
timeous and appropriate responses to parliamentary questions in the format
prescribed by Parliament / the legislature and ensure departmental
representation in parliamentary events, compile cabinet memoranda,
speeches, submissions, briefing notes and other documents as required,
gazette and table draft bills emanating from the portfolio of the Minister, provide
advice and support in terms of policy and procedure to the department in
respect of key parliamentary events like the tabling of the budget vote of the
Minister. Co-ordinate and control movements between the Pretoria and cape
Town offices for Parliamentary sessions where required. Manage and oversee
the packing, dispatching and unpacking official documents and equipment in
Pretoria and Cape Town. Manage the movement of households to and from
Cape Town. Study the relevant public service and departmental prescripts /
policies and other documents to ensure that the application therefore is
understood properly. Remain up to date with regards to the applicable
prescripts / policies and proc ensures that the Minister apply terrain. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes applicable to the Minister.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms N
Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : application link: https://forms.gle/VXa4tH9X7iFNLKqB6
POST 16/09 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: REGCLE
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to render effective and efficient administrative
clerical services to support the delivery of registry and document management
services.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate / Grade 12 (NQF level 4) as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority. No work experience required. Skills /
Competencies and Knowledge: Basic Job knowledge, Communication (verbal
and written), Interpersonal Relations, Flexibility, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will render general clerical support services,
including registering, stamping, sorting and distribution of incoming and
outgoing documents and mail. Open new files and register them in the Register
of Files Opened and close files and register them in the according to registry
procedure manual and file plan. Replace worn-out file covers as and when
required. Complete control sheets, report files that are due for disposal, record
all documents to be scanned in the Register of Scanned Documents. Retrieve,
issue, receive files, photocopy and scan records as requested. Arrange and
pack records as per transfer list and conduct logistical arrangements for the
transfer of archival records. Driving change and operational excellence and
manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms N
Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : application link: https://forms.gle/EK1o92gWpk2XJN1m7
12
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via the link to: DCoG Recruitment
Application Form – Fill out form
For application enquiries email: ICTBusinessApplications@cogta.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The successful
candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The requirements for appointment at Senior Management
Service level include the successful completion of Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, which
can be accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course prior to appointment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 16/10 : SCANNING OPERATOR REF NO: DCOG-SCO
This is a re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply, as previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
13
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Initiative. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution. Reliability.
Communication (verbal and written. Teamwork. Technical Competencies: In
depth knowledge of Registry procedure manual. Operating high volume copy
and scanning equipment. Intermediate level proficiency with MS Word, Excel,
Google Suite. Courier services.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Disassemble and
prepare documents for scanning in line with standard operating procedures.
Scan, index and export documents to the electronic record management
system. Establish and maintain quality controls and assurance to ensure
accurate digitized documents. Re-assemble and organise documents to their
original state after scanning for physical filing. Assist in rendering registry
services in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chiloane Tel No: (012) 334 0887
14
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Additional to this, SMS shortlisted candidates will be required to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (competency based
assessments) and other assessment prescribed for SMS as mandated by the
Department of Public Service and Administration Senior Management Service
competency assessment tools. The competency assessment will be limited to
successful candidates in the interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability checks (pre-employment screening)
which may include social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will
have to undergo a full security vetting while in the employ of the department
and negative outcome shall nullify employment contract. Failure to submit the
required documents will result in your application not being considered.
Successful candidates will be required to disclose their financial interests within
one (1) month of appointment. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or
feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated,
receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job
description(s) please contact the person indicated in the post details.
Successful candidates will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve
(12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/11 : CHIEF OF DEFENCE MATERIEL REF NO: 17/16/26/1
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
15
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : ARMSCOR Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with Bachelors Honours Degree/Postgraduate Diploma
(NQF 8) in Engineering/Science/Technology Management as recognised by
SAQA. Must have a minimum of eight (8) years proven experience at Senior
Management level coupled with extensive management experience in the field
of Acquisition/Engineering/Science/Technology Management. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-
entry certificate course and for further details, please click
https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note
that there is specific amount to be paid in order to enrol for the course.
DUTIES : Lead and direct Defence Materiel operations within the Defence mandate.
Provide strategic direction on defence materiel acquisition by setting norms
and standards. Manage the defence materiel process through facilitating the
acquisition boards and councils. Oversee the SCAMP through monitoring
acquisition projects across the South African National Defence Force. Oversee
technology development to support current and foreseen defence capabilities.
Oversee compliance with acquisition norms and standards. Provide executive
advice through response on Parliamentary and Audit General queries. Provide
strategic direction with regard to Defence Materiel related research priorities.
Represent the Department on National Treasury Bid Adjudication Committee
for National tender governance. Approve the appointment of the acquisition
delegations. Oversee Defence acquisition SLA. Coordinate Department
involvement in inter-departmental and international Materiel Forums. Oversee
and direct acquisition management. Direct Defence acquisition. Direct SA
Army, SA Air Force, and SA Navy Defence acquisition. Direct common
weapons acquisition. Provide direction on the intangible capital assets
management. Provide direction on the facilitation for registering of intangible
assets with Department of Trade and Industry. Direct the development of
Defence Materiel governance. Provide direction on the Materiel Governance
Risk and Compliance. Provide leadership on the Defence Industry
Governance. Provide direction with regards to compliance with legislative
prescripts. Lead Defence technology development in line with departmental
mandate. Direct and guide on the defence research and technology
development process and infrastructure. Provide, guide and control on the
acquisition of technology in the Department. Guide on the development of
technology in the Divisions/Services. Direct the operation of Defence Research
Development Board. Guide technology demonstration to Department. Manage
resources in the Division. Manage human resources and financial resources.
Manage physical resources. Manage information/knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Maj Gen N.E. Mkhize Tel No: (012) 339-5201
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
POST 16/12 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: 17/16/26/2
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines).
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with Bachelor Honours Degree/Postgraduate Diploma in
the Finance/Accounting/Auditing field (NQF 8) as recognised by SAQA. Must
have a minimum of eight (8) years proven experience at Senior Management
level coupled with extensive management experience in the field of financial
management. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course
16
and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to be paid in
order to enrol for the course. Vast knowledge and understanding of relevant
policies and legislations, e.g PFMA, National Treasury’s Modified Cash
Standard, GRAP, PSA, PSR, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, LRA, BCEA, etc.
Special requirements (skills needed): Financial management; Strategic
planning, etc.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in directing and overseeing the Department’s
Budgeting and Financial processes. Deliver budget management systems,
policies, internal controls, reports and oversight for the Department of Defence
and subordinate entities in accordance with Government’s regulatory
framework. Ensure financial policies are promulgated and maintained.
Oversee the department’s accounting process. Lead the design and
implementation of accounting policies, systems, and internal controls in
accordance with Government’s regulatory framework. Monitor the
implementation of personnel payment. Provide executive direction in the
implementation and management of central accounts. Provide strategic
leadership in financial control processes. Lead Financial Services on risk and
compliance matters, audit processes, financial misconduct and financial risk
management. Ensure adequate processes to reduce negative audit outcomes.
Guide and advise Secretary for Defence, Chief SANDF and the Minister of
Defence on financial matters. Develop presentations for, Parliamentary
Committees and engagements and SCOPA. Draft response to parliamentary
enquiries. Facilitation of AGSA audits and engagements. Management of
resources of the Division. Manage human resources and financial resources.
Manage Assets of the Division. Manage information/knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Major General N.E. Mkhize Tel No: (012) 339-5201
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
POST 16/13 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 17/16/26/3
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package) which consists
of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured according to
Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : ARMSCOR Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with B Com Degree or Advance Diploma qualification (NQF
7) with Accounting, Management Accounting as recognised by SAQA. Must
have 5 years proven experience at senior managerial level in financial
environment. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course
and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to be paid in
order to enrol for the course. The successful candidate must have extensive
knowledge of Government Policies, Departmental Policy, Departmental
decisions and activities as well as on the wider Intra-Departmental activities in
Government. Planning and organizing. Continuous improvement and service
delivery. Strategic direction/management. Vast knowledge and understanding
of relevant policies and legislation, e.g. PFMA, National Treasury’s Modified
Cash Standard, GRAP, PSA, PSR, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, LRA, BCEA,
etc. Special requirements (skills needed): Financial management; Strategic
planning, etc.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction to, manage and administer the Chief Directorate
Budget Management. Ensure comprehensive budget management direction,
business plan, budget and cash flow plan for the execution of the decentralised
budget management function within the Service/Division where budget
managers are employed. Advice the CFO on the status of spending within the
various Budget Programmes. Ensure completed and updated performance
agreements with all personnel within the decentralised budget management
environment on an annual base. Ensure comprehensive and timely personnel
17
assessment of all the people that work within the decentralised budget
management environment as directed by the personnel management process.
Guide training and skills development for personnel. Develop, prepare, review
and report the directorates risk plan to CFO. Report quarterly on Chief
Directorate Budget Management performance to CFO and develop corrective
action plans for unsatisfactory performance. Develop an annual training plan
for Financial Management Division Budget Managers. Monthly Budget
Management Committee meeting. Coordinate and certify the schedule name
list for salary control purposes. Control the gifts, donations and sponsorships
returns within the Chief Directorate and submit quarterly reports. Ensure that
asset registers are continuously updated when assets are acquired or disposed
of and conduct half-yearly asset verification and submit stock verification
certificate. Provide monthly and quarterly performance reports to the CFO per
programme. Oversee the budget preparation and budget control service.
Ensure comprehensive budget guidelines, taking all functional disciplines into
account, which is based on the departmental strategy and plan and which
reflects a sound division of revenue of each year. Ensure a thoroughly
evaluated, approved, accepted and sound budget submission according to the
specifications of the Treasury Guidelines on Preparing Budget Submissions,
which is based on the Departmental strategy, plan programme and priorities
and which is affordable of each year. Confirm that the Financial Management
System (FMS) allocation balance with the final Defence medium term
expenditure allocation and which indicated outputs, performance and service
delivery by the end of each year. Ensure a correctly captured and fully
motivated departmental vote on the financial management system. Ensure a
comprehensive and correct Special Defence Account, which balance with the
medium-term expenditure allocation, the SCAMP and FMS. Ensure an
accurate, reliable and consistent cost database, which is accessible to all
budget holders and managers on a continuous base. Oversee an approved,
correct and well-evaluated adjustments budget taking into account all
unforeseen and unavoidable expenditure as well as other relevant factors
which influence expenditure at the dates specified by NT. Lead Budget
Management service to the services and Divisions. Ensure comprehensive and
sufficient budget management organisational structure for Level 2 (b) and 3
Budget Holders, staffed with capable, efficient and professional personnel and
which is in line with the affirmative action and equal opportunity policy and plan
on a continuous base. Oversee the budget and budget control service provided
by budget mangers. Budget management committee. Provide strategic
direction for the budget management function within the Department. Provide
advice and direction to all Budget Managers to ensure Budget Holders are
supported. Oversee the development and implementation of budget
management processes in accordance with Government’s regulatory
framework. Ensure that Budget Management policies are aligned with
Government’s regulatory framework and reviewed in accordance with the
policies’ reviewed frequently. Ensure that Department other policies are
compliant with the Budget Management regulatory framework. Ensure that
FMS are maintained to enable Budget Managers to provide budget
management service. Oversee the systems that provide reports and
management information to clients and budget managers. Adequately assist
and represent the CFO with regards to budget management functions. Provide
policy advise that supports Government decision making. Provide operational
advice that supports Departmental activities. Provide budget management
assistance to CFO when interaction with oversight committees. Oversee the
preparation of and submit for approval, credible answers to Parliamentary
enquiries relating to budget management issues in accordance with the
relevant guidelines. Oversee the preparation of and submit for approval
credible answers and responses to NT enquiries to budget management
issues. Oversee the preparation of and submit for approval, credible responses
to AGSA and IG enquiries relating to budget management issues. Provide input
to Department Annual Performance Report. Advise to CFO on
submissions/enquiries by Services and Divisions on budget management/
financial implications on matters at hand requiring CFO’s
approval/recommendation. Manage resources in the Chief Directorate.
Manage human resources and financial resources. Manage physical
resources. Manage information/knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E.A. Abotsi Tel No: (012) 355 5050/6218
18
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
POST 16/14 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTING REF NO: 17/16/26/4
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : ARMSCOR Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced Diploma qualification
(NQF 7) with Accounting, Management Accounting as recognised by SAQA.
Must have 5 years proven experience at senior managerial level in financial
environment. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course
and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to be paid in
order to enrol for the course. The successful candidate must have extensive
knowledge of Government Policies, Departmental Policy, Departmental
decisions and activities as well as on the wider Intra-Departmental activities in
Government. Planning and organizing. Continuous improvement and service
delivery. Strategic direction/management. Knowledge of Public Finance
legislation and regulations. Department’s financial systems. Vast knowledge
and understanding of relevant policies and legislation, e.g. PFMA, National
Treasury’s Modified Cash Standard, GRAP, PSA, PSR, Treasury Regulations,
PPPFA, LRA, BCEA, etc. Special requirements (skills needed): Financial
management; Strategic planning, etc.
DUTIES : Oversee stores, services and related payments. Lead the implementation of
payments for medical, corporate, cash and suppliers. Ensure the establishment
and maintenance of relationship with relevant stakeholders. Provide strategic
advice to relevant internal and external stakeholders. Lead the implementation
of recommended intervention and improvement of processed and systems.
Oversee the management of central accounts. Guide the implementation of
account control. Ensure the application of bank management processes in the
Department. Advice on the central accounts matters. Ensure the application of
Modified Cash Standard in the preparation of monthly, quarterly and Annual
preparation of Financial Statements and records. Provide strategic direction on
debt management. Lead the implementation of personnel payment. Provide
monitoring strategy for the payment of salaries, wages and allowance to
personnel of the department. Ensure effective management of foreign and
domestic S&T claim services. Lead the implementation of final payment
processes. Report quarterly on Chief Directorate Budget Management
performance to the CFO and develop corrective action plans for unsatisfactory
performance. Oversee the development and implementation of accounting
processes in accordance with Government’s regulatory frameworks. Provide
executive leadership and direction for alignment of accounting policies to the
regulatory framework. Lead the maintenance of Accounting Systems. Provide
executive direction on the identification and mitigation of risks associated with
accounting services. Develop and align Operational Plan with the departmental
strategy. Provide executive Guidance on implementing of new developments
in accounting. Establish and maintain relationships with internal and external
stakeholders. Manage Resources of the Chief Directorate. Manage human
resources and financial resources. Manage physical resources. Manage
information/knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E.A. Abotsi Tel No: (012) 355 5050/6218
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X 976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
19
POST 16/15 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS REF NO: 17/16/26/5
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : ARMSCOR Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced Diploma qualification
(NQF 7) in Political/Social/Human-Science/International Relations as
recognised by SAQA. Must have 5 years proven experience at senior
managerial level in International Relations or related field. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-
entry certificate course and for further details, please click
https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note
that there is specific amount to be paid in order to enrol for the course.
DUTIES : Oversee the strategic direction for Defence International Affairs. Ensure
Defence International Affairs Policy and Strategic Business Plan. Render
specialises management and advice to enhance civil control of defence in
support of the Secretary for Defence. Provide priorities for the establishment
of multilateral international agreements. Establish internal control systems for
the execution of Defence International Affairs. Determine priorities for defence
diplomacy initiatives. Promulgate departmental Defence International Affairs
(DIA) objectives and priorities. Promulgate DIA policy and instructions.
Establish a planning model for the establishment of DIA. Ensure inclusion of
signed agreements in Departmental strategic plans. Promulgate departmental
performance reports on DIA. Ensure the alignment of DIA initiatives with the
Presidency, the MOD and South Africans Foreign policy. Lead the Defence
Multilateral and Bilateral Affairs. Facilitate approval process for defence
international agreements. Prepare and submit prescribed document.
Coordinate DOD international agreement liaison initiatives. Compile
comprehensive instructions with regards to the maintenance and/or
enhancement of international defence agreements. Establish internal control
systems for international defence agreements. Establish multilateral defence
commitment. Maintain liaison channels with multilateral organisations.
Oversee the adherence to International Legal instrument. Analyse international
legal instruments including Treaties, PACTS, MOU, Protocols, SOFA’s, TCC
Agreements, IO’s and technical arrangement. Scrutinise DIA agreements
documentation to ensure adherence to international Legal prescripts. Provide
specialist advice on international legislation. Manage resources in the Chief
Directorate. Manage human resources and financial resources. Manage
physical resources. Manage information/knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Maj Gen N.E. Mkhize Tel No: (012) 339-5201.
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT MARKETING REF NO:
DPSP/15/16/26/01
SALARY : R487 197 – R584 370 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a recognised Bachelor’s Degree/
Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) or relevant qualification. A minimum of three
(3) years’ supervisory experience in Arms Control. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Communication skills (Verbal and Written communication), Strong
Leadership, Conceptual thinking and Problem Solving Skills, Computer Skills,
Management Skills, Strategic Management Skills, Policy Analysis, Planning
and Programming Skills. Knowledge of Government Policies, Departmental
policies and procedures. Public Finance Legislation, Good Knowledge with
regards to Strategic Planning Extensive knowledge on Conventional Arms
20
Control, Understanding of the Defence Industry, Understanding of Regulation
as a Function. The person to be appointed should have the following general
attributes: Honesty, Integrity, Hard Working, Firm, Fair, Strategic Thinker,
Strong Leadership, High Ethical Standards, Personal Drive, Empathetic,
Intuitive Thinker, Perceptive, Incisive, Decisive and Good interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to process permit applications
(contracting and marketing) and perform the following key functions: obtain
validation of applications’ information, obtain approval for issuing permits and
furnish approved permits, provide/issue approved permits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.P. Mashaba Tel No: (012) 335 6133
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Directorate Conventional Arms Control, Private Bag X161 Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: Department of Defence, Armscor
Building, cnr of Nossob and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or
email to Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za
POST 16/17 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: DPSP/15/16/26/02
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a recognised National
Diploma/Advanced Certificate at (NQF Level 6) in Office Administration/Public
Administration or Management or relevant qualification. A minimum of three (3)
years’ experience in the related field. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge of relevant Public Sector Policies, Legislation, Regulations and
Acts. Knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures. Good interpersonal
skills, organising and planning skills, communication skills (written and verbal).
Understanding of financial management, Problem solving and decision-making
skills. Analytical thinking. Advanced Computer Skills and high level of
professionalism. Highly reliable.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to provide administrative support
services within the establishment of Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning
Division and perform the following key functions: Assist with planning and
implementation in respect of the business plan of the Directorate. Assist with
the administration of Human Resource Management, Logistics and Asset,
Financial administration support service and Provide support in respect of
Information, Communication and Technology administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P.P. Gabuza Tel No: (012) 335 5210
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Private Bag X161 Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered during office hours to:
Armscor Building C/O Nossob and Delmas Ave, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or
email to Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za
POST 16/18 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
DPSP/15/16/26/03
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Supply Chain
Management Certificate will be an added advantage. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge: Relevant Public Sector Policies, Legislation,
Regulations and Acts. Knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures.
Skills: Good interpersonal skills, organising and planning skills, communication
skills (written and verbal) and computer literate.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to render supply chain management
support services within the establishment of Defence Policy, Strategy and
Planning Division and perform the following key functions: Render asset
management support service, render demand and acquisition service, render
logistical support and report on supply chain management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R.F. Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 335 6034
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Private Bag X161 Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered during office hours to:
Armscor Building C/O Nossob and Delmas Ave, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or
email to Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za.
21
POST 16/19 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: DPSP/15/16/26/04
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Skills: Good
interpersonal skills, organising and planning skills, communication skills
(written and verbal) and Computer literate.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to provide registry services within the
Directorate Conventional Arms Control and perform the following key functions:
Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filing and record management service.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R.F. Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 335 6034
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Directorate Conventional Arms Control, Private Bag X161 Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: Armscor Building C/O Nossob and
Delmas Ave, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or email to
Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za.
POST 16/20 : SECRETARY REF NO: DPSP/15/16/26/05
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Special
requirement (Skills needed): Knowledge in client services, secretarial or related
occupation will be an added advantage. Applicants who have completed
internship in Public Service will be given preference. Applicants with prior
learning, either by means of experience or alternative courses may apply.
Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Job related skills:
Good telephone etiquette, Sound organisational skills/events management,
excellent inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion and good presentation skills. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
Ability to act with tact and discretion and Good presentation skills. Knowledge
of Departmental policies and procedures. Analytical and innovative thinking
ability as well as problem solving skills. Must be able to obtain a confidential
security clearance within a year.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephonic calls and refers the call to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant Director. Record appointments and events on a diary. Type
documents for the Director and other staff within the unit. Operate office
equipment e.g. Fax machine, scanner and photocopier. Record appointments
and events. Provide secretarial support services to the Director, Liaise with
travel agencies to make travel arrangements. Check the arrangements when
relevant documents are received. Arrange meetings and events for Director
and staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invite roles players, organise
refreshments, sets up for scheduled meeting and events. Process the travel
and subsistence claims for the Director. Process all invoices that emanates
from the activities of the work of the Director. Record basic minutes of the
meetings of the Director where required. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Do filing of documents for the Director and the unit where necessary.
Administer matters like leave registers, telephonic accounts and attendance
register. Receive, record and distribute all incoming and outgoing documents
etc. Handle the procurement of standard items like office refreshment for the
Director. Collect all relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for
meetings. Remain up to date with regards to prescripts / policies and
procedures applicable to her / his work environment to ensure efficient and
effective support to the Director. Study relevant Public Service and the
departmental prescripts / policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the Director. Prepare briefing and
22
notes for the Director as required. Keep manual filing system for the Director.
Maintain an electronic document management database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T.B. Khunou Tel No: (012) 355 5812
Ms M.P. Msimango Tel No: (012) 355 5974
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Directorate Risk Management, Private Bag X910, Pretoria 0001 or hand
delivered during office hours to: Armscor Building, Defence Headquarters Unit,
Corner Delmas and Nossob Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, where it must be
placed in the box at the reception or email to Sonnyboy.Nkosi@dod.mil.za
23
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post. Persons
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly
persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An indication of such,
in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Submit your completed application using one of the following methods, post:
The Director-General, Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivery at Matimba House Building 192 Visagie Street
(Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street), Pretoria, or email directly to the email
address Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online). N.B: It is the sole responsibility
of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches the Department on or
before the set deadline.
NOTE : Applicants are informed to submit their application(s) by completing the 2021
version of the Z83 form quoting the relevant reference number and a
comprehensive CV only. The CV must indicate qualifications, experience “if
any” and the period thereof. The 2021 version of the Z83 form is obtainable at
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ or www.gov.za/documents. It is
important to ensure that the Z83 is completed in full. This means that all fields
of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. It is acceptable
under section E, F, G, for applicants to indicate “refer to CV or see attached”
due to the limited space provided on the Z83 form. However, the question
relating to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be
answered, but if you are already in Public Service just indicate “N/A.” Please
initial the form and sign the declaration. Email application(s) must strictly be
submitted as one (1) PDF document or attachment (i.e., Z83 and CV scanned
as one PDF document). It is also important to indicate the correct job title and
the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the
correct email address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot)
application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications submitted using the incorrect application form (old
Z83) will not be considered. Each advertised post must be accompanied by its
own application for employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview. Applicants in possession of foreign
qualifications must submit an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA) if shortlisted. The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. If you have not been contacted within three
(3) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All applicants
for SMS posts will also be subjected to a technical exercise and an interview.
Following the interview and technical exercise, then the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
No SMS post appointment shall be implemented without the relevant candidate
producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela) obtainable from
www.thensg.gov.za. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the administration of the
recruitment process or possible employment and will not be shared with third
parties without prior consent unless required by law. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s) at any
stage of the recruitment process. The successful candidate will be expected to
24
enter into a performance agreement within three (3) months from the date of
appointment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/21 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DEE2026/008
(5 years fixed-term contract)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum, (all-inclusive package), additional compensation in the
form of a non-pensionable HoD allowance equal to 10% of the relevant annual
all-inclusive remuneration package, payable in equal portions per months for
the time that a member is designated as a HoD.
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An Honours Degree/ Postgraduate in Public Management/ Administration/
Economics/ or relevant Energy Engineering qualifications at NQF Level 8
recognised by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) plus the pre-
entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela) and A valid driver’s license. A relevant
master’s degree will be an added advantage coupled with 10 Years’ experience
in senior management level in the public service with a proven track record of
successfully leading and managing at senior management level. Knowledge:
In depth understanding and knowledge of the energy industry, RSA
constitution, Public Service Act, Public Administration Management Act, Public
Finance Management Act, Knowledge of the regulatory regime affecting the
Energy industry, Energy legislation, Government policies and legislation,
Understanding the intricacies of managing change in government
organisations and relationships with stakeholders, HR practice & procedures,
administrative procedures, Financial management, Project management
Energy Economics, Project Finance and Human Resource management.
Skills: Ability to execute strategies, Excellent ethical Leadership, Excellent
analytical skills, Problem-solving skills, Strong crisis management and conflict
mediation skills, Leadership, Management, Planning and Organising, Project
Management, Communication (verbal & written, liaison), Policy Analysis and
Development, Computer, Presentation Skills, Interpersonal skills, Influencing
skills and Negotiation skills. Thinking Demands: Problem Solving, Innovative,
Analytical, Creativity, Critical thinking logical, A high level of awareness of the
economic environment.
DUTIES : Ensure the management, coordination and monitoring of programmes and
projects focussed on access to energy resources. Oversee and regulate South
Africa's the Nuclear energy sector, ensuring peaceful use and compliance with
international obligations. Ensure effective oversight over the state-owned
companies (Schedule2 and 3) in line with the Companies Act. Formulate,
maintain and implement integrated energy policies to promote and encourage
investment in the energy industry and improve security of supply. Provide
strategic leadership, management and support services to the department.
Oversee the handling and co-ordination of international liaison in the energy
field. managing the performance and development of employees reporting to
the Director-General.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Ndou Tel No: (012) 406 7430
General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms M Palare Tel No: (012)
406 7426
NOTE : Kindly note that this post was previously advertised on circular 40 of 2025,
therefore applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
Priority will be given to female applicants from all races (African, Coloured,
Indian and White).
25
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of an SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicant’s own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. For all SMS appointment, the selection panel will
recommend suitable candidate (s) to attend generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
26
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/22 : DIRECTOR: BENEFICIARY SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/8/1002
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management / Operational
Research / Public Management / Public Administration / Business
Administration/ Business Management/ Finance at NQF Level 7 as recognised
by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
Operations/ Social Security/ Insurance Operations Environment. Knowledge:
Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), Labour Relations Act
(LRA), Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA), Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Communication (verbal and written), Computer
Literacy, Presentation, Report writing, Policy development, Planning and
Organizing, Financial Management, Problem Solving, Interpersonal.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of operations services in the Provide and Labour
Centres. Lead the provision of a comprehensive financial administration in the
province and Labour Centres. Manage the provisions of Unemployment
Insurance Services within the Province and Labour Centres. Manage
resources (Human, Finance and Equipment/Assets)
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Maneli Tel No: (051) 505 6203
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs6@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: Priority will be given to African Males and African Females, Africans
with Disability, Coloured Males and Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Males and White Females.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/23 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADVOCACY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS REF
NO: HR4/26/05/02HO
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Labour
Law/ BCOM Law / LLB. A valid driver’s licence. Four (4) years functional
experience in legal / compliance / inspections and enforcement services
environment. Knowledge: Public Service transformation and management
issues, Public Service Act, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Occupational
Health and Safety Act and Unemployment Contribution Act. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organizing, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing Skills, Presentation Skills, Innovation, Analytical and Verbal and
written communication.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Advocacy programmes. Manage the
implementation of stakeholder engagement programmes. Manage and
facilitate the implementation of capacity development programmes for the
inspectors in the provinces. Manage the implementation of the National
Minimum Wage nationally and provincially. Manage resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Naidoo Tel No: (012) 309 4896
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ11@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets are African male and female, Coloured male and female, Indian
female and White male.
POST 16/24 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HR4/26/05/03HO
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
27
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Labour Relations/Human Resource Management/ Law/Public
Administration/Public Management. Two (2) years management experience.
Three (3) years functional experience in Labour Relations/Employment Equity
services. Knowledge: Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act, Protocol and etiquette. Skills: Communication, Analytical,
Innovative, Interpersonal Relations, Stress management, Project
management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the logistical and administrative support required by
the Commission for Employment Equity (CEE). Manage and coordinate the
technical support required by the CEE to execute its mandate. Manage the
technical support in relation to employment equity policy matters required by
the Employment Equity Directorate to meet its strategic objectives. Manage the
budget of the CEE based on the work plans, expenditure and the PFMA.
Manage the performance of staff in the Policy Unit for in order for them to
execute their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Ntsoaki Mamashela Tel No: (012) 309 4041
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ24@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets are African male, Coloured male and female, Indian female and
White male and female.
POST 16/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Benoni Ref No: HR4/4/4/5/01(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Johannesburg Ref No: HR4/4/4/5/02 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Soweto Ref No: HR 4/4/4/5/03 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Vereeniging Ref No: HR 4/4/4/5/04 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource
Management, Labour Relations, Social Sciences, Engineering Sciences,
Public Administration/Management, Business Administration/Management,
Operations Management, Project Management, Three (3) years legal
qualification. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) at an Assistant Director
level and three (3) years’ functional experience in labour market operations
/services delivery environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management processes, Asset
Management, All Labour Legislations, Departmental policies and Procedures,
Public Service Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Service Delivery
Improvement Plan Skills: Management, Computer skills, Presentation skills,
Communication (both verbal and written), Interpersonal, Conflict Management,
Leadership, Project Management, Diversity management, Change
management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per the mandate of Department of
Employment and Labour Represent the Department in key stakeholder forums
including interdepartmental structures of government and municipalities
including those dictated by the District Development Model (DDM). Implement
and manage service delivery improvement interventions. Manage all the
resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Zigana at 082 061 1234
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2000 or
hand deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, 47 Empire Road,
Parktown. For online applications email:
Jobs-GP-BEN/1@labour.gov.za, (Benoni)
Jobs-GP-JHB/2@labour.gov.za, (JHB)
Jobs-GP-VRG/3@labour.gov.za, (Vereeniging)
Jobs-GP-SWT/6@labour.gov.za, (Soweto)
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females and White Males
are encouraged to apply.
POST 16/26 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/26/04/04HO
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
28
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF6 as recognized by SAQA in Communication Science/
Public Relations/ Marketing. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years
at Supervisory level and two (2) years functional experience in Communication.
Knowledge: Basic Departmental policies and procedures, Public Finance
Management Act, Basic knowledge of all legislation, Project Management,
Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy.
Interpersonal. Analytical. Communication (both verbal and written). Problem
solving, Listening and observation, Negotiation, Time management, Creative
writing.
DUTIES : Manage resources and outputs of the stakeholder research inter-departmental
liaison and internal communication. Ensure that stakeholder research and
analysis forms an integral part of communications campaigns/ projects plans
development evaluation. Provide stakeholders with environmental research
analysis and profiling support to the Minister, Director-General and Programme
Managers on their provincial and community visits programmes and similar
venture. Implement and evaluate stakeholder research, environment analysis
and profiling, inter-departmental liaison, inter- governmental liaison and
internal communication.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nkungwana Tel No: (012) 309 4648/071 256 3392
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ14@labour.gov.za
NOTE : In terms of EE targets, all races are under-represented.
POST 16/27 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
HR4/26/05/05HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Econometrics/ Statistics and Development Economics. Two (2) years
functional experience in Monitoring and Evaluation Setting. Knowledge:
Analysing data using statistical software, Principles, procedures and tools of
database management, Intermediary knowledge of economic concepts and
trends, White Paper on transformation of Public Services, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulation and relevant prescripts, Departmental Policies and
procedures, Batho Pele principles, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity
Act. Skills: Interpersonal, Research (qualitative and quantitative), Computer
literacy, Data interpretation and data management, Technical report writing,
Communication (both verbal and written), Problem solving, Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide support in the development of research agenda. Provide support in the
procurement process of securing the services of external service providers to
conduct research. Prepare written correspondence/reports on minimum wage
matters, issues and inquiries/enquiries from the Office of the Minister,
Parliament, and National Minimum Wage Commission etc. Administer all
resources in the sub directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MB Selebe Tel No: (012) 309 4790
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ19@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets are African male and female, Coloured male and female, Indian
male and female and White female.
POST 16/28 : SENIOR COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING OFFICER (EE ROLE) REF NO:
HR4/26/05/06HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary Qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by the South African
Qualifications Authority in Labour Relations / Human Resource Management /
Public Management / Public Administration. Two (2) years functional
experience in Labour Relations / Human Resource Management / Public
Management/Public Administration. Knowledge Employment Equity Act,
Employment Equity Regulations, particularly EE reporting forms, IT systems,
particularly EE Online Reporting Systems, Departmental policies, Public
Finance Management Act, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Computer literacy,
29
Data capturing & IT systems, Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal
relations, Analytical, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Provide assistance to employees on the EE Online Reporting System. Prepare
the EE Public Register for publication. Process postal and electronic
correspondence received by the EE Registry. Provide administrative support
to the EE Registry.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lufuno Makwarela Tel No: (012) 309 4056
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets are African male and female, Coloured male and female, Indian
male and female and White female.
POST 16/29 : EMPLOYMENT SERVICE PRACTITIONER 2: PES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kokstad – KZN Ref No: HR4/4/4/47 (X1 Post)
Satellite Office: Jozini – KZN Ref No: HR4/4/4/48 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Social Science (Psychology, Industrial
Psychology)/ Public Administration/Business Management/Public
Management. Valid driver’s license. Two (2) years functional experience in a
client-oriented environment. Knowledge: Employment Service Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Public Service Act, Immigration Act, Skills
Development Act, Social Plan Guidelines, Human Resource Management,
Public Financial Management Act, ILO conventions related to PES. Skills:
Planning and organising, Communication Skills, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Networking, Negotiation,
Marketing.
DUTIES : Marketing PES services to stakeholders to acquire opportunities and conduct
recruitment, selection, referral and placement of registered work seekers.
Process requests for International Cross Boarder Labour Migration (ICBLM)
and advise on the availability of skills. Process applications for registration of
Public Employment Agency (PEA) and Temporary Employment Schemes
(TES). Supervise the provision of registration and referral of work seekers for
the Department. Monitor the implementation of employment schemes, Labour
Activation Programmes (LAP) Projects and Temporary Relief-Schemes.
Supervise the administration of employer services at the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 201 0501 (Kokstad)
Mr T Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8824 (Jozini)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre: PO Box 260, Kokstad 4700 Or hand
deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad. For Online Applications: Jobs-
KZN1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, P/Bag X56, Ulundi 3838 Or hand
deliver at Unit A, Wombe Street, Ulundi. For Online Applications: Jobs-
KZN3@labour.gov.za (For Jozini Satellite)
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 16/30 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SPER/UIF
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations / Human Resources
Management / LLB as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years functional
experience in Labour Relations environment. Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service
Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC
and CCMA Procedure. Skills: Negotiation. People Management. Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Communication. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Provide support in handling Labour Relations cases in the fund (i.e. grievances,
misconduct and Labour disputes). Implement Labour Relations Act, policies,
guidelines, procedures and provide advice therefore. Represent the
department in disciplinary hearings, conciliations, arbitration and bargaining
chambers (under supervision). Supervise resource (Human, Equipment/
Assets) in the section.
30
ENQUIRIES : Mr TD Modise Tel No: (012) 337 1976
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF23@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, White Males and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 16/31 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR: ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1OAOE/UIF
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three year’s relevant tertiary qualification in Office Administration/ Secretarial/
Office Management/ Administration/ Management Assistant. 1-2 years’
functional experience in Office Administration environment. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele
Principles, Administration Procedures. Skills: Communication (verbal and
written), Computer Literacy, Time Management, Interpersonal, Report Writing,
Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide secretariat service to the office of the Senior Manager. Render financial
administration service to the office of the Senior Manager. Provide logistical
support service to the office of the Senior Manager. Provide administrative
support service to the office of the Senior Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AC Mathabela Tel No: (012) 337 1815
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF24@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, White Males and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 16/32 : COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING OFFICER (EE REGISTRY ROLE) REF
NO: HR4/26/05/07 HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary Qualification in Labour Relations/ Human
Resource Management/ Public Management/Public Administration. Two (2)
years functional experience in Labour Relations/ Human Resource
Management/ Business Management/Public Management. Knowledge
Employment Equity Act, Employment Equity Regulations, particularly EE
reporting forms, IT systems, particularly EE Online Reporting Systems,
Departmental policies, Public Finance Management Act, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Computer literacy, Data capturing & IT systems, Verbal and written
communication, Interpersonal relations, Analytical, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Provide assistance to employees on the EE Online Reporting System. Prepare
the EE Public Register for publication. Process postal and electronic
correspondence received by the EE Registry. Provide administrative support
to the EE Registry.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lufuno Makwarela Tel No: (012) 309 4056
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ14@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets are African male and female, Coloured male and female, Indian
male and female and White female.
POST 16/33 : FACTORY INSTRUCTOR TEXTILE REF NO: HR4/24/07/08
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Supported Employment Enterprise, Rand (JHB)
REQUIREMENTS : Occupational Certificate: Sewing Machine Operator (NQF Level 04) / N6
Clothing Production (NQF Level 06), Two (2) years functional experience in
textile environment, Supervisory experience and a valid driver’s license will be
an added advantage. Knowledge: Public Service Act, Public Finance
Management Act, South African Bureau of Standard classification, Disability
Act and policies, Manufacturing process, Proven exposure and knowledge of
a relevant production system or philosophy, Sound knowledge of Safety,
Environment and Quality systems. Skills: Planning and organizing,
Communication, Computer Literate, Interpersonal, Analytical, Leadership,
Technical, Teamwork, Counselling.
31
DUTIES : Implement product manufacturing process and operations within the factory.
Coordinate the development of products in the factories. Ensure compliance to
the Occupational health and Safety in the factory. Manage Human Resources
in the factory.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Maluleke Tel No: (012) 843 7300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria. For Online
Applications: Jobs-SEE8@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with Disabilities, African Males, Indian
Females, White Males.
POST 16/34 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: HR 4/4/10/03
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6) / Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQFL 7) in Office Management /Information Management and Technology /
Public Administration/ Business Administration/Business Management/ Public
Management. One (1) years functional experience in office administrator /
secretariat services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Planning and Organising, Administration procedures, Batho Pele principles,
Interpersonal relations. Skills: Facilitation skills, Interpersonal relationship
skills, Computer skills, telephone etiquette, Organising skills, decision Making
skills, Analytical skills, Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide a receptionist support to the Office: Public Employment Services
including diary management for the Director: PES. Render a secretariat service
for the Office of the Director: PES. Assist in Monitoring and maintaining the
budget including the supply chain for the Directorate: PES. Facilitate and
coordinate all logistical and resource requirements of the Directorate. Provide
Management information and records management services in the Directorate.
Track and monitor projects tasks within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ngaki Tel No: (043) 701 3096
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005 East London, 5201,
Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London Email: Jobs –EC3@labour.gov.za
or Jobs- EC8@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to White Males, Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Females, Indian Males, White Female and People with
Disability.
POST 16/35 : INSPECTOR: IES REF NO: HR/4/4/1/55
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : eQonce Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant tertiary qualification Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement
Services. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies,
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing
(Mainly for own), Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills,
Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing, listening and
observation skills, Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary. Plan and conduct
proactive (Blitz) inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaign on all Labour Legislation
independently. Draft and maintain inspection plans and reports including
analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on only allocated
cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mduduma Tel No: (043) 718 8380
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 260 Qonce 5600, Hand
deliver at 41 Arthur Street Qonce 5600. Email: Jobs-ECKWT@labour.gov.za
32
NOTE : White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian
Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 16/36 : LEGAL ADMINSTRATIVE OFFICER (MR-3 to MR-5) REF NO: HR4/4/1/250
SALARY : Grade 3: R337 563 – R385 965 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R403 929 – R461 838 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 5: R483 219 – R685 812 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) years legal tertiary qualification or equivalent. 3-5 years post graduate
experience in Legal Services Knowledge, Admission as an Advocate / Attorney
of the High Court of South Africa. Knowledge: DoL and Compensation Fund
Business strategies and goals, Directorate/ sub-directorate goals and
performance requirements, Compensation Fund Services, Compensation
Fund Value and business processes, Public Service Regulations, Policies and
Procedures. COIDA Act, Regulations and Policies, Public Service Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, PFMA and National Treasury Regulations,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, PAJA, Constitution Act 108 of
1996(amended), Road Accident Fund (RAF), Unemployment Insurance (UIA),
General Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations, LRA, EE Ac, SDA &
BCEA. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency, Business Writing Skills,
Analytical Thinking, Decision Making, Communication and information
Management, Customer Focus and responsiveness, People and Performance
Management, Managing Interpersonal conflicts and resolving problems,
Planning and Organising, Team Leadership.
DUTIES : Provide an effective legal administrative and support services for the Fund.
Provide legal services to the Fund. Handle litigation for and on behalf of the
Fund. Represent the Fund at the hearing in terms of section 56 and 91
applications hearings. Liaise with third parties. Manage and review claims of
objections hearing process. Render administration support in terms of section
56 and 91 application hearings.
ENQUIRIES : Dr B Dunga Tel No: (043) 702 7500
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005 East London, 5201,
Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London. Email: Jobs-EC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian
Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 16/37 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Gqeberha Ref No: HR4/4/1/01 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMaqoma Ref No: HR4/4/2/10 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: eMaxesibeni Ref No: HR/4/4/1/56 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures and guidelines,
Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment Services Act, Public Service
Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Computer literacy,
Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening, Telephone
etiquette, Interviewing Skills, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
service of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SC Mshumpela Tel No: (041) 506 5000 (Gqeberha Labour Centre)
Mr TD Mgudane Tel No: (046) 645 7700 (KwaMaqoma Labour Centre)
Ms L Nongena-Sigedle Tel No: (039) 254 0282 (eMaxesibeni Labour Centre)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045, Gqeberha,
6000 or Hand deliver at 116-134 Govan Mbeki Avenue, Central, VSN Building,
Gqeberha, 6000 or Email at Jobs-ECPLZ@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: P O Box 538, Fort Beaufort, 5720
or Hand deliver at 529 Alice Road, Fort Beaufort, 5720 or Email at Jobs-
ECFOB@labour.gov.za
33
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, eMaxesibeni
,4735, Hand deliver at No 52 Church Street eMxesibeni 4735. Email: Jobs-
ECMTA@labour.gov.za
NOTE : White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian
Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 16/38 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER IES REF NO: HR4/4/1/186
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Mdantsane, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No experience needed. Knowledge: All relevant Labour Legislations
and Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies, Procedures and
Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette,
Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to interpret legislation,
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at helpdesk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lisolomzi Mduduma Tel No: (043) 761 3151
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X19 Mdantsane, 5219,
or hand deliver at No.1 Mzaule Street, NU 1 Mdantsane. Email: Jobs-
ECMDS@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males, Coloured Males, Coloured Females,
Indian Males, Indian Females, White Females, People with Disability.
POST 16/39 : SENIOR ADMIN CLERK: RISK MANAGEMENT REF GAP-JOHA-23341564-
20260507-1
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate). Knowledge: Treasury
Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Risk Management, Supply Chain
Management Framework, Public Service Regulations and Relevant Prescript,
Public Administration Management Act, Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Public Financial Management Act. Skills: Computer Literacy,
Conflict Management, Communication (Verbal and Written), Project
Management, Leadership, Report Writing, Decision Making.
DUTIES : Administer and provide effective and efficient management of Risk Registers.
Perform Office Administration support duties. Provide logistical support
function and ensure adequate functioning of Risk Management Unit and
Committees. Provide assistance on ethics and anti-corruption prevention
strategy implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Kolotsi Tel No: (012) 309 4188
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. For online application Ctrl
+click to follow the link: Https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : In terms of EE targets, all races are under-represented
POST 16/40 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/1/183
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed commercial subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or equivalent certificate and no experience
needed. Knowledge: Public Service Financial Management, Supply Chain
Framework, LOGIS system, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act,
Departmental Policies and Procedures. Skills: Client orientation and customer
focus, Computer literacy, Presentation, Analytical, Communication, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide contract and tender management support to be in line with developed
relevant prescripts (Daily), Administer open and close tender processes in
compliance with SCM policies and Treasury Regulations, Procure goods and
services in line with relevant prescripts in the Province, Provide inventory
management support to ensure effectiveness and efficient in the Province,
Render assets management support to comply with Departmental policies.
34
ENQUIRIES : Mr Melikhaya Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005, East London,
5201, Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London or email: Jobs-
EC10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Females, White
Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, People with Disability.
POST 16/41 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: IES SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/1/184
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Mdantsane Labour Centre, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Knowledge: Administrative procedures relating to an office, Filing
and retrieval of documents, Ability to operate fax machine and a photocopier,
Data capturing. Skills: Planning and organising, Communication, Computer
literacy, Assertiveness, Ability to prioritise tasks, Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services to the Directorate, Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate, Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate, Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lisolomzi Mduduma Tel No: (043) 761 3151
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Mdantsane, Private Bag X19
Mdantsane, 5219, Hand deliver at No 1 Mzaule Street NU 1 Mdantsane or
email: Jobs-EC10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Females, White
Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, People with Disability.
POST 16/42 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/1/182
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No experience needed. Knowledge: National Archives guidelines
and Record Management prescripts, Departmental policies and procedures,
Batho Pele Principles, Departmental Registry Procedures, Public Finance
Management Act. Skills: Communication skills, Interpersonal relations,
Problem solving, Organising skills, Computer Literacy, Punctuality, Innovative,
Client focused, Organisational goal driven, Self-motivated.
DUTIES : Maintain the filling system within a Provincial Office according to the Archives
& Records Management prescripts (Daily), Handle all the correspondences for
the Provincial Office and maintain records thereof. Operate the franking
machine and ensure availability of funds. Render general administrative duties
in the section including Procurement of stationery and equipment for the
section. Clear suspense accounts and unallocated accounts before month
closure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Melikhaya Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005 East London,
5201 or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London or email Jobs-
EC10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Females, White
Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, People with Disability.
35
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form (Z83) and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of the email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Assistant Director: Forest Resource
Protection (X2 Posts) with Ref No: Western Cape: FOM23/2026 and Limpopo
/ Mpumalanga: Ref No: FOM24/2026 advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 15 dated 08 May 2026 with the closing date of 25 March 2026 has
been withdrawn.
36
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOREST BASED ENTERPRISES REF NO:
FOM40/2026
Re-Advertisement and those who have previously applied for Ref No:
FOM/CT01/2026, need to re-apply
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Nelspruit (Mpumalanga)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or relevant qualification within the related
field recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in the
related field of which three (3) years should be at an entry/junior managerial
level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Experience in Forestry or related
field. Experience in Forestry or related field. All shortlisted candidates, including
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical
exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Knowledge and understanding in the application of National Forests Act, 1998
(Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA) and National Environmental management Act, 107
of 1998. Knowledge of Environmental Legislation and policies impacting on the
forestry sector. Knowledge in the regulation of natural resources. Knowledge
of government administrative procedures (PFMA and Treasury Regulations).
Stakeholder Engagement. Strategic thinking and Leadership Management.
Problem Solving skills. Expert Level of Computer Literacy. Ability to work under
pressure and handle criticism. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability
to interpret regulations and develop appropriate policies. Good interpersonal
relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid Driving license and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage and implement programmes aimed at supporting and developing
forestry small growers, timber production enterprises, Non-Timber Forest
Product initiatives, and forestry-related SMMEs across the forestry value chain.
Provide technical and business development support to timber growers,
forestry SMMEs, community forestry projects, and post-settlement/transfer
beneficiaries. Facilitate access to markets, funding, and certification for forestry
enterprises. Coordinate the development/expansion of small-scale timber
production enterprises, including implementation of the afforestation
programme and facilitation of water trading processes. Develop and implement
non-Timber Forest Products strategy framework. Establish and coordinate
provincial structures and forums to support forestry SMMEs, timber growers,
and the broader forestry value chain. Engage with communities, traditional
authorities, government departments, and development partners to ensure
effective coordination and implementation of Forestry Enterprise Support
Programmes. Participate in the Implementation of the Forestry Blended
Finance Scheme and Forestry Masterplan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Onica Zikhali at 060 973 4232
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management,
Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape
Town or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email. Email: FOM40-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026, 16:00. No late applications will be accepted
POST 16/44 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION SUPPORT
REF NO: CCAQ06/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Administration/Management or
relevant qualification within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the related field of which three (3)
years should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or
equivalent). Knowledge of strategic coordination and planning and professional
report writing. Understanding of Project management. Risk management and
business planning. Knowledge of policy development and organization
performance management. Good understanding of administrative procedures
and quality control of documents. Knowledge of Government Policies and
legislations such as PAJA, PAIA, PFMA and other Financial Management and
associated prescripts. Skills required: Planning, Organizing, Facilitation,
37
Communication and technical writing skills. Advance office application such as
Ms Package. Ability to collaborate effectively with stakeholders at various
levels. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently and in a
team. Proactive approach to meeting deadlines and delivering results with
limited supervision. Sense of responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Manage the budget and procurement administration process of the Branch.
Ensure financial control including petty cash and procurement in office of DDG.
Monitor and compile monthly branch reports (expenditure, procurement and
contract management). Provide strategic planning and reporting support to the
Branch Chief Directorates. Coordinate and consolidate Branch inputs into
Strategic Plans and APPs. Monitor and report on the implementation of
Strategic and Operational Plans. Provide document management support.
Implement management decisions. Quality assures all documents before
submitting to DDG. Ensure provision of secretariat support. Coordinate
Parliamentary questions and queries, as well as stakeholder engagements.
Manage and monitor referrals of the Branch. Provide office management
services to the DDG. Ensure compliance and manage reporting for office of the
DDG. Ensure logistical support to office of the DDG. Ensure provision of
administration support services. Liaise and develop relationship within internal
and external stakeholder. Develop stakeholder database. Ensure the
preparation of stakeholder communications material, including presentations,
documents, profiles etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha Tel No: (012) 399 9602
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email. Email: CCAQ06-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
POST 16/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS AND LOGISTICS REF NO: OC08/2026
Re-Advertisement and those who have previously applied for Ref No.
OC07/2026, need to re-apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma /Degree in Shipping & Logistics/Maritime Studies/Operations
& Logistics or equivalent relevant qualification. A minimum of 5 years’
experience of which three (3) of them should be at an entry/junior managerial
level (Assistant Director Level or equivalent). All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. The incumbent must have knowledge of Logistics management
and business practices. Knowledge of Maritime/Shipping Logistics including
clearing and forwarding. Working knowledge of customs rules relating to cargo.
Ability to implement logistics management systems and controls. Ability to
develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies and legislation. Knowledge of
HR management practices, legal issues, negotiations and dealing with conflict.
Assist in career planning and effective deployment of personnel. The following
skills & competencies are required; Policy development, computer literate,
management and project management, good interpersonal relations,
Relationship Management, Stakeholder engagement, Research, writing and
presentation, change management, knowledge management, service delivery
innovation (SDI), problem solving and analysis. People Management and
Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Honesty. Ability to
work long hours voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability to
develop and apply policies. Ability to work individually and in team. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Creativity. Ability to work under pressure. Ability
to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Sense of responsibility and
loyalty.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible to provide inputs to NRF/DSI with regards to
the logistics required by relevant principal investigators. Obtain all approved
research projects to ensure the necessary support is provided before each
voyage. Organise and facilitate planning meetings before departure. Receive
orders from bases and facilitate approvals in accordance to the available
budget. Ensure all supplies are procured and packed timeously. Ensure
38
effective and efficient warehouse management including clearing and
forwarding of cargo. Ensure that the Department meets the environmental
requirements. Manage and co-ordinate the recruitment process of expedition
members in collaboration with HCM. Ensure that the expedition members
receive the necessary training. Ensure effective operations of the base stations
for science support. Receive all the reports from the three research bases.
Convene meetings with management to discuss reports. Analyse reports and
give recommendations and compile feedback for the bases. Follow-up with the
key personnel about matters arising from the reports. Ensure assets are
managed responsibly according to the government asset management policy.
Ensure Southern Oceans and Antarctic activities are conducted safely and risk
managed. Draft policy documents outlining the operations and other aspects
related to the management of bases. Develop, review and benchmark policies
with other National Antarctic Programs. Consult relevant stakeholders on
related matters. Ensure the implementation of policies and procedures.
Develop a template for the relief voyage reports. Provide inputs to science and
logistic integration annually including updating of the SANAP website. Ensure
implementation of the collaboration agreement. Add support to management
of search and rescue operations in liaison with vessel management and
relevant stakeholders. Attend local and international meetings as and when
required to improve SANAP operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hlophe Tel No: (021) 493 7067
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management,
Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape
Town or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email. Email: OC08-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026, 16:00. No late applications will be accepted
POST 16/46 : CONTROL SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN GRADE A: CRUSTACEANS (SOUTH
COAST ROCK LOBSTER AND KZN CRUSTACEAN TRAWL FISHERIES)
REF NO: FIM17/2026
SALARY : R573 552 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust Building)
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma in Natural Science or a relevant qualification; Compulsory
registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions
(SACNASP) as a Certificated Natural Scientist. A minimum of six (6) years of
post-qualification technical scientific experience in marine living resources or
fisheries research. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other
must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Sound knowledge of
scientific methodologies applicable to fisheries research; Knowledge of
crustacean fisheries, particularly the South Coast Rock Lobster and KZN
crustacean trawl fisheries; Knowledge and experience in data collection, data
management and data analysis of scientific datasets; Experience in the
development, operation and maintenance of scientific and technical
equipment; Sea-going and fieldwork experience; Knowledge of relevant
legislative and compliance requirements applicable to fisheries research and
monitoring; Computer literacy, including the use of standard data management
and office software; Good communication, planning and organisational skills;
Ability to work independently and as part of a multidisciplinary team;
Willingness to work extended hours, undertake field deployments, and conduct
work at sea as required; Valid South African driving license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide technical and operational support to the
crustacean research programme, with specific focus on the South Coast Rock
Lobster and KZN Crustacean Trawl fisheries. Key responsibilities include:
Provide technical leadership in the collection, verification, management and
analysis of fisheries-dependent and fisheries-independent data to support
scientific assessments and management advice; Develop, maintain and
update fisheries databases and data systems in support of monitoring and
research programmes; Coordinate and support field surveys, sampling
programmes and monitoring activities, including logistical arrangements,
equipment preparation and quality control of collected data; Participate in sea-
going and field trips as required; Participate in Scientific and Management
Working Group meetings and contribute technical inputs, data updates and
progress reports; Compile and disseminate technical reports, summaries and
39
data products for management, stakeholders and scientific forums; Liaise with
research institutions, universities, industry partners and regulatory bodies on
matters relating to crustacean research and monitoring; Support the
administration of research and monitoring projects, including planning,
scheduling, documentation and record-keeping; Assist with the management
and monitoring of project and operational budgets in line with departmental
financial procedures; Supervise and coordinate technical and scientific work
processes and support the mentoring and development of staff, interns and
students
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Qayiso Mketsu at 082 782 9674
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management,
Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape
Town or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email. Email: FIM17-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026, 16:00. No late applications will be accepted
POST 16/47 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: OC04/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Management / Office management or
relevant qualification in the relevant field. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in
an office environment. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Knowledge of
Administrative procedures, financial management and Personnel
management. Knowledge of Public Service procedures and prescripts,
Procurement policies and procedures as well Departmental procedures and
prescripts. Knowledge of Logis, BAS and Financial procedures. Knowledge of
Administration field: emails, Internet, Word Processing, Document
management. Skills: Sound organising and planning skills in terms of own
work, good communication skills (written & verbal), compiling spreadsheets
and preparation of budget and compile reports. Computer proficiency e.g.,
Excel, Access, PowerPoint and Word. Ability to communicate with people at
different levels, to gather and analyse information. Be able to work individually
and in team, good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under extreme
pressure. Ability to work with difficult people and to resolve conflict, sense of
responsibility, and loyalty.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and secretariat services for the Oceans Economy
programme and its subprograms and projects. Schedule and convene
stakeholder meetings, workshop and compile meeting reports and action plans
Render chief user services. Provide procurement services for the acquisition
of goods and services to the Chief Directorate Ocean Economy with adherence
to procurement policies, supply chain, and financial instructions. Provide
logistical support services to the Chief Directorate for convening meetings,
workshops or events. Undertake travel arrangements for meetings and events,
including domestic and international travel, and administer subsistence
allowances, travel advances, and travel claims for officials. Provide financial
support services including compiling budget spreadsheet monitoring,
recording, reconciling and reporting on the budget expenditure of the Chief
Directorate. Provide inventory support services including keeping record, life
history and movement of the assets within the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mangcu at (083) 652 5142; e-mail: cmangcu@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management,
Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape
Town or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email. Email: C04-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026, 16:00. No late applications will be accepted
40
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to vacancies@Health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/48 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO: NDOH 28/2026
Directorate: Employment Relations and Workplace Support
(One Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and an NQF level 7 degree in Labour Relations / Labour
Law. At least five (5) years’ working experience at middle/senior management
level in Labour Relations. Proven experience in grievance, disciplinary
procedures and processes, dispute resolutions, hearing, conduct
investigations as well as negotiations. Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury
41
Regulation, and other financial prescripts. Thorough understanding of labour
relation principles, practices and procedures. Knowledge on relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts, circulars and procedures applicable to labour
relations. Knowledge and experience in policy development and analysis.
Good strategic capability and leadership, people management and
empowerment, programme and project management, financial and change
management, service delivery innovation and communication (written and
verbal) skills. Ability to compose and provide comprehensive reports, research,
analyse documents and/or information and advice. Valid driver’s license. The
SMS pre-entry certificate is required for appointment finalization.
DUTIES : Initiate and provide strategic direction in the implementation and promotion of
employment relations programmes and interventions. Manage, oversee and
monitor the implementation of the Public Service grievance and disciplinary
procedures. Ensure finalisation of all grievances and complaints received from
employees in the Department and stakeholders, respectively. Facilitate and
manage the resolution of disputes and misconduct processes. Manage labour
disputes and provide support in litigation cases, in consultation with Legal
Services. Provide strategic support on labour relations services. Manage and
ensure effective provision of research, advice and opinions. Facilitate and
present the department at Council and Chamber levels. Promote sound labour
relations practices. Establish and maintain good relationships with organised
labour. Manage investigations and complaints lodged and related to fraud,
corruption, and maladministration. Manage compliance and ensure the
development and review of labour relations and dispute management
prescripts and related labour relation policies. Manage the implementation of
labour relations prescripts through provision of technical advice, support and
guidance. Provide support and advice on the management and resolution of
disputes arising from implementation and interpretation of collective agreement
and prescripts. Manage investigations and complaints lodged related to fraud,
corruption and maladministration. Facilitate the appointment of investigators
and collate the necessary documents for investigations and complaints lodged.
Provide overall management of the directorate. Manage finances in line with
the PFMA. Facilitate the costing of a functional Labour Relations unit for the
department. Ensures that remedial actions identified by AGSA and internal
auditors are attended to, promptly. Develop and implement risk management
plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mahlatjie Tel No: (012) 395 8414
OTHER POST
POST 16/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO: NDOH 29/2026
Directorate: Employment Relations and Workplace Support
(One Year Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Northern cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Labour Relations / Labour
Law. At least 3-5 years working experience at ASD level in labour relations,
disputes, disciplinary hearing, conciliations, and arbitration. Knowledge of
relevant legislation/policies/prescripts/circulars and procedures applicable to
Labour Relations. Understanding of Labour legislation (LRA, BCEC, EE, Skills
Development Act). Understanding of policy formulation, interpretation, and
procedures. Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management as well as
Departmental Policy and Guidelines. Good communication (verbal and
written), planning and organizing, conflict and problem solving, presentation
and people management, facilitation and analytical thinking, negotiation and
computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to plan, work independently and
as part of a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate grievances within the department. Manage and
monitor the implementation of the Public Service disciplinary procedures.
Gather the necessary data/information and investigate the matter. Manage and
disciplinary processes in the workplace. Manage and conduct investigations
on all alleged misconduct cases, perform disciplinary functions pertaining to
misconduct and poor work performance. Facilitate, manage and coordinate the
handling of disciplinary matters. Submit a complete investigation report to the
42
Director-General for approval. Facilitate the notice and allegation sheet to be
served to the alleged transgressor. Manage and monitor the implementation of
labour relations strategies, policies and procedures in line with the public
services framework. Develop departmental strategies and systems relating to
grievance and disciplinary mechanisms, including policies, procedures and
processes. Create and manage a case management database on all Labour-
related matters. Render labour relations support services. Provide training and
advocacy on labour-related matters in the department. Represent the
department conciliation and arbitration proceedings. Obtain mandate for the
discussion of agenda items on the agenda. Obtain a mandate for the employer
position on each agenda point. Manage externally referred disputes. Provide
support and advice on the management and resolution of disputes. Manage
labour disputes and provide support for litigation cases, in consultation with
Legal Services. Manage resources, risk and audit queries. Plan all activities
within the unit. Organise and manage records and statistics of all grievance
and misconduct. Advise employees and managers on Labour related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mahlatjie Tel No: (012) 395-8414
GRADUATE INTERSHIP PROGRAMME 2026-2028
(24 MONTHS)
The National Department of Health invites unemployed graduates who seek practical work experience
and who are interested in the Public Service career to apply for internship (an occupationally based work
experience opportunity) in the occupation mentioned below for a minimum of twenty-four (24) months.
The applicants must not have been exposed or have participated in an internship programme. The
Department aims to enhance the employability of unemployed graduate as potential employees through
this internship programme.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/50 : HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNSHIP
REF NO: NDOH 30/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management and Development
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Human Resources
Management or Human Resources Development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/51 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 31/2026
(X1 POST)
Directorate: Human Resources Administration
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Management
Services or Operations Management or Production Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/52 : EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 32/2026 (X1
POST)
Directorate: Employment Relations
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Labour Relations
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/53 : FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING INTERNSHIP REF NO:
NDOH 33/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management and Accounting
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Financial
Management or Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
43
POST 16/54 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 34/2026 (X4
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain and Assets Management
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Supply Chain
Management / Logistics / Public Management / Purchasing or Transport
Management
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/55 : INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 35/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit or Risk Management
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Internal Auditing or
Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/56 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION AND TECHNOLOGY INTERNSHIP REF
NO: NDOH 36/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Information Communication and Technology
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Computer Science
or Information Technology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/57 : COMMUNICATION INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 37/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Communication and Stakeholder Management
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in
Journalism/Marketing and communication or Communication.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/58 : LEGAL SERVICES INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 38/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Legal Services and Parliamentary Affairs
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) and LLB Degree (NQF level 6) in Law.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/59 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH
39/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Management/
Business Management/ Administration/ Public Management/ Administration/
Office Management/ Administration or related NQF 6 Administration
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/60 : STRATEGIC PLANNING INTERNSHIP REF NO: NDOH 40/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Strategic Planning
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
44
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Public
Management/ Administration/ Business Management/ Administration or
Strategic Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
POST 16/61 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER INTERNSHIP REF NO:
NDOH 41/2026 (X1 POST)
Office of the Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R8 174.78 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) and Diploma with 360 credits (NQF 6) in Management/
Business Management/ Administration/ Public Management/ Administration/
Office Management/ Administration or related NQF 6 Administration
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Masilo Tel No: (012) 395 8669
45
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Western TVET College)
(Mnambithi TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO:
CORP/ASD/IT/01
Nature of Appointment: Permanent (PERSAL Appointment)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Information Technology/Computer Science or a relevant
qualification. A minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work experience in the
Information Technology environment of which 3 years should be on a
supervisory level. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be computer literate.
Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills: Knowledge of the TVET sector
regulations and legislative framework. Knowledge of computer hardware,
software, and programmes. Knowledge of Corporate ICT principles, ICT
policies and relevant legislation, prescripts and regulations governing the TVET
and Public Service sector. Should have strong administrative, planning,
organising, report writing, project management, problem solving and people
management skills.
DUTIES : Conduct research regarding provincial and national policy framework and
legislation. Conduct workshops and awareness of all new ICT policies. Ensure
that appropriate policies and processes are put in place for risk management.
Administer and monitor IT security and electronic access. Establish systems to
safeguard hardware and data. Research and develop specifications for Local
Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network (WAN) technologies. Procure
LAN and WAN technologies. Distribute LAN and WAN access to staff and
students according to the college policy and needs. Set-up, manage and
maintain LAN, WAN, email, and internet connections in the college.
Troubleshooting, resolving, and documenting all ICT related issues. Research
and develop plans for software and hardware products required by the college.
Advice on procurement of college software and hardware. Maintain and
monitor software and hardware systems, report on redundant hardware and
software and advise on updating. Manage all licensing of software that the
college is using and ensure that they are valid and appropriate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo/Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to ASDIT@westcol.co.za in a
pdf format and as one attachment, quoting the relevant reference number to
the Principal, Western TVET College, Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street,
Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Successful candidates will
be subjected to a vetting and financial disclosure process (criminal record,
citizenship, qualification verification and employment verification). People living
with disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within
six months after closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful. Western TVET College is an equal opportunities employer and
reserves the right not to fill the posts. Please ensure that the Z83 form is
completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026 at 12:00
46
POST 16/63 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MTVET 06/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ NCV level 4 or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma in Human
Resource Management/ Development (NQF level 6). Relevant PERSAL
certificates. 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Human Resource
Management/Administration environment. A valid driver’s licence.
Understanding and utilisation of the PERSAL system. Knowledge and
understating of the application of Public Service legislative framework (PSA,
PFMA, PSR etc.). Extensive knowledge and understand of human resource
prescripts and practices. Understanding of the archive. Must be computer
literate. Good communication skills, report writing skills, planning and
organising skills.
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of conditions of service
and remuneration of employees (leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long
service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension, allowances, PILIR etc.).
Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of termination of
services. Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of Recruitment
and Selection in line with the Departmental policy and delegations
(Advertisements, appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications,
secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, Probation periods etc.). Ensure
overall supervision and proper implementation of staff / personnel records.
Supervise human, physical, financial and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
POST 16/64 : EXAMINATION OFFICER REF NO: MTVET 07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV level 4 or equivalent. A recognised National Diploma (NQF
Level 6) in Education/ Administration or equivalent qualification. 2-3 years’
experience in examination services / Teaching and Learning environment or
related field. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of White Paper on PSET Act.
Knowledge of Public TVET Sector and its regulatory and legislative framework.
Knowledge and understanding of the Higher Education Sector. Knowledge and
understanding of COLTECH system, TVETMIS and ITS. Knowledge of practice
notes, national, provincial policy frameworks relevant to Education, Training
and Development. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act.
DUTIES : Coordinate internal and external examination assessment services.
Coordinate and conduct training of Invigilators, Markers and Data Capturers.
47
Facilitate examination and Irregularity Committee for Campus and serve as a
Secretariat. Process application and issuing of certificates services. Provide
administration support for the examination unit. Ensure compliant examination
venues. Administer receipt and distribution or submission of examination
materials to marking centres and DHET. Issue results and certification. Assist
lecturers with ITS. Supervise Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith, 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
POST 16/65 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: MTVET 08/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV level 4 or equivalent. National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resource Management/ Development (NQF level 6). 2-3 years’ relevant
experience in Human Resource Management / Administrative environment.
Must have relevant PERSAL Certificates. Must be computer literate in MS
Word and Excel. A valid driver’s licence. Understanding and utilisation of the
PERSAL system. Knowledge and understanding of the application of Public
Service legislative framework (PSA, PFMA, PSR etc). Knowledge and
understanding of Human Resource prescripts and practices. Good planning
and organising skills. Communication skills, Interpersonal skills; Ability to work
under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Render conditions of services and remuneration of employees (leave, housing,
medical, injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension,
allowances, PILIR etc.). Implement termination of services. Render
Recruitment and Selection services in line with the Departmental policy and
delegation (Advertisements, appointments, transfers, verification of
qualifications, secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, probation
periods etc.). Responsible for supervisory work of Human Resource
Management activities. Ensure safe record keeping of documents. File
personnel data, policies, regulations and circulars. Providing monthly reports.
Perform leave Audits, retrieve and submit documents for audit requests.
Handle all personnel enquiries and correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
48
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
POST 16/66 : LEARNERSHIP/ PLACEMENT OFFICER REF NO: MTVET 09/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV level 4 or equivalent. National Diploma / Degree in Business
Administration, Public Management, Marketing, Public Relations or equivalent
qualification. 2-3 years’ relevant experience in employment services /
Administration environment. Knowledge of employment services/
Administration services. Computer literacy. Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge
of employment service market, PSET and CET Act. Knowledge of Public
Service prescripts. Knowledge of DHET policies. Knowledge of Industrial
operation. Identification of opportunities in the labour market. Good
communication skills, networking skills, negotiation skills, interpersonal skills
and planning skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the placement of students. Conduct job readiness training
programmes. Liaise with commerce, industry and other relevant stakeholders.
Maintain the student tracking system. Maintain and update employer and
student placement database. Develop quality electronic reports and statistics.
Monitoring and evaluation of work placement practices. Conduct work based
assessment for students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
49
POST 16/67 : MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS) OFFICER REF NO: MTVET
10/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ NCV level 4 or equivalent. National Diploma (NQF level 6) / Degree
in Information Management / Data Management or equivalent qualification. 2-
3 years working experience in Management of Information System (MIS) / Data
Management environment or any relevant knowledge. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of CET Act, ISO and quality Management systems. Knowledge of
PSET and TVET Curriculums. Knowledge of policies and governance
environment of TVET Colleges including knowledge of TVETMIS system,
annual reporting requirements by the Higher Education Institutions. Knowledge
and understanding of Information Management. Knowledge, understanding,
application and interpretation of office management, COLTECH, data
warehouse and IT prescripts. Planning and organizing skills, problem solving
skills, computer literacy and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Maintain and administer TVETMIS, capturing and data extraction for the
College. Extract data, compile and produce various reports and statistics.
Capture and update information on COLTECH / TVET MIS and other related
systems. Provide administration of all academic and student related system
programmes, course and qualification. Facilitate the renewal of TVETMIS
licenses before expiry dates. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
POST 16/68 : STUDENT LIAISON OFFICER REF NO: MTVET 11/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ladysmith Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/National Senior Certificate / NCV level 4 or equivalent. A recognised
National Diploma/Degree in Social Science/Psychology/Education or
equivalent relevant qualification. 2 to 3 years’ experience in student support
services Education/Teaching and Learning environment or related field. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge of Public Sector. Knowledge of TVET Environment.
Proven knowledge of Psychology practice. Teaching background. Knowledge
of Public Service legislative framework such as Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Batho Pele Principles.
Good interpersonal relations. Planning and organizing skills. Ability to work in
a team and independently.
DUTIES : Provide student liaison services at the Campus. Provide welfare support to
students by liaising between stakeholder/persons. Prepare weekly and
monthly reports. Assist students as and when required. Assist with academic
50
support plan for identified students. Attend to any student accommodation
needs. Guide students to make the right decision and improve their
performance. Ensure that there is continuous awareness and level of
knowledge in HIV/AIDS to students. Address socio-economic student matters
appropriately including substance and other relevant matters. Promote regular
attendance of students and monitor the attendance register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
POST 16/69 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HR (TRAINING) REF NO: MTVET 12/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/National Senior Certificate / NCV level 4 or equivalent. Recognized
National Diploma in Human Resource Management/Development (NQF level
6) or equivalent qualification. 1-2 years’ relevant experience in Human
Resource development environment. Knowledge and understanding of
coordination and facilitation of training. Knowledge and understanding of
application of Employment Equity Act. Knowledge and understanding of PMDS
and IQMS Coordination and facilitation of training programmes. Planning and
organizing. Communication (Good verbal and written). Computer Literacy.
Teamwork. Driver’s license would serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assist in Implementing all training and development programmes in line with
approved plans. Assist in the development and implementation of Work Skills
Plan. Assist in processing bursaries in line with the departmental policy. Assist
in the Coordination and the implementation of Performance Management
Development System, Integrated Quality Management System and coordinate
training for College staff. Assist in facilitating the development of job
descriptions. Provide assistance on the development, review and
implementation of Employment Equity Plan for the College.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Qhu Tel No: (036) 631 0360
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be addressed for attention of HR Unit and submitted to
Mnambithi TVET College, Private Bag X9903, Ladysmith, 3370 or hand
delivered to 77 Murchison Street, Ladysmith 3370, alternatively be sent by
email to recruitment@kzntvet.edu.za
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 (From 1 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public
Service department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and signed when
submitted. Should an application be received using the incorrect application
form for employment (Z83), the application will not be considered. All
applications must be accompanied by a fully completed Z83 and a detailed CV.
51
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to the HR office before or on the
date of the interview. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Due to the large number of responses
anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Should the applicant not be notified of the outcome of the application within
three months after the closing date, they should consider their application as
unsuccessful. The college reserves the right not to fill posts. Mnambithi TVET
College is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
52
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment
to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based
candidates on grounds of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling
of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to
women. Persons falling in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to
submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job
requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic
Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA); will be subjected to an interview,
various relevant tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks
(credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications, and employment references
including verification of exit reasons, and conducting business with State).
Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a
security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence
between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates, only. The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic,
professional, passionate and talented individuals to form part of a new
leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the transformation of
Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed
to delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital
transformation, ascribe to the Department’s shared value set, have what it
takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the highest levels of dignity,
integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA
complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of
2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment purposes,
retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised
disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an application
constitutes consent to such processing.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/70 : DIRECTOR: CENTRAL LAW ENFORCEMENTREF NO: HRMC 23/26/1
Branch: Immigration Services
Chief Directorate: Inspectorate
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
53
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Security Management, Policing, Public
Management, Public Administration, International Relations at NQF level 7 as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years experience at Middle / Senior management level
is required. Experience in a Law / analysis or interpretion of information
environment is required. Experience in law enforcement (SAPS / Defence /
Immigration). Experience in operational planning in joint operations.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework, Immigration Act 13 of
2002 and DHA Enabling Legislation. Sound knowledge and understanding of
Government Structures. Knowledge of the Medium Term Strategic Framework
(MTSF), Government Planning Framework (Lekgotla and Makgotla).
Knowledge of Departmental Legislation and Prescipts. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness
to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Strategy execution. Service delivery innovation.
Stakeholder relations, Operational planning. People management and
empowerment. Financial management. Presentation skills. Investigations.
Problem solving and analysis. Business Report Writing. Information and
Networking. Negotiation Skills. Conflict Management Skills. Diplomacy.
Research methodology and Analysis. Policy development. Digital skills. Data
analysis. Coaching and facilitating.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Monitor province’s functions and ensure the implementation of
uniform and standardised policies, processes and procedures. Oversee
effective inspections, checking of documents, arrests, detention and
prosecution of illegal foreigners. Ensure effective reporting on statistics and
trends on activities nationally (inspections, status of open cases, arrests,
deportations). Analyse all data and records provided by provinces and provide
recommendations to improve future service delivery. Liaise with Deportation
unit, Correctional Services, SAPS and NIA to ensure co-ordination and
partnership in the detection, processing, detention, arrest and legal
management of foreigners convicted of criminal activities. Manage the effective
planning and coordination of raids, roadblocks and investigations with regional
offices and SAPS where required. Ensure that cases opened in provinces are
transferred to Integrity management unit (typically cases spanning several
provinces, involving syndicates, corrupt DHA officials etc.). Monitor effective
interface between Inspectorate officers in zones and Integrity management
unit. Identify and communicate new priorities and planned raids or initiatives to
SAPS, Correctional Services, NIA and Regional Offices. Develop the
Operational Plan for the directorate and ensure effective prioritization and
resource planning. Coordinate, monitor and report on the delivery of the
Operational Plan against agreed objectives and performance indicators.
Report on the performance of the directorate against the Operational Plan to
the Chief Director / Deputy Director-General. Develop technical expertise and
skills within the directorate based on business needs and environmental
changes. Ensure business transformation and partnerships with various
stakeholders. Ensure business alignment to agreed business requirements.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders on law enforcement related
matters. Benchmark with various institutions for best practice. Develop
identified law enforcement policies and procedures in conjunction with the
Policy and Strategy directorate. Contribute to the review of code of practice for
the directorate. Contribute towards the development, and ensure
implementation, of an appeal system with clear processes and procedures.
Determine appropriate resources to achieve objectives. Monitor and evaluate
the compliance with the provisions of the Immigration Act, Immigration
Regulations and other relevant policies and procedures. Develop and
implement within the directorate governance processes, frameworks and
procedures associated with statutory financial responsibilities. Monitor and
ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, DHA policies and procedures
within the directorate. Ensure compliance with all audit findings within the
directorate. Represent the directorate at management and other relevant
forums. Monitor quality, risk, standards and practices against prescribed
frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za3YuemEv; or sent via email
to imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
54
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Limpopo Ref No: HRMC 23/26/2a (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: North-West Ref No: HRMC 23/26/2b (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: Western Cape Ref No: HRMC 23/26/2c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management, Logistics
Management at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’
supervisory experience in Supply Chain Management environment is required.
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative
Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Sound knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
regulations. Knowledge and experience in budgeting and revenue
management. Knowledge of task planning and allocation. Knowledge of DPSA
guidelines. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Project Management. Knowledge
Management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Manpower forecasting
and planning. Knowledge Management. Decision Making. Change
Management. Budget and Financial Management. Written and communication
skills. Research and Learning. Presentation Skills. Problem Solving. Strong
Analytical Skills. Report Writing. Influencing and Networking. Planning and
Organizing. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Ensure effective management of assets within the
Province. Develop, Implement and monitor acquisition, maintenance and
disposal plans for assets. Ensure proper implementation of the Asset
management Strategy within the department. Oversee regular asset counts
and verify results against Asset Register. Coordinate physical verification of all
departmental assets. Monitor all movements of departmental assets and
record/update the asset register. Conduct inspections of equipment to identify
potential re-utilisation. Account for maintenance and depreciation of assets.
Verify the accuracy of the data recorded/updated in the asset register.
Reconcile differences between physical assets and asset register and prepare
reports. Monitor and participate in the implementation of efficient improvement
projects. Compile reports of identified obsolete, redundant and damaged
assets, transfer these items to suspense register. Co-ordinate inputs for the
Department’s Asset management Policy and advice line managers on asset
management. Provide Inputs on assets financials and reconciliations. Manage
acquisition, operation and maintenance of assets. Dispose of economically
obsolete assets according to the policies and recouping of asset value in
settling employee debt to the department. Facilitate bar-coding, stocktaking,
and verification of departmental assets. Manage budget allocation and
operational planning from assets management. Develop a strategic plan and
advise line managers on strategic planning for disposal and replacement of
asset. Develop acquisition plan in relation to asset management. Ensure
successful management of the properties in the province. Manage effective
operation of the property management unit. Facilitate the implementation of
transport services (fleet) in the province. Ensure effective risk and compliance
management within asset management unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
North West: Mr L Appels Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409 / (021) 488 1412
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
North West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street, Mafikeng,
2745
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000
55
POST 16/72 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INVESTIGATIONS
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Eastern Cape HRMC 23/26/3a (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: KwaZulu -Natal HRMC 23/26/3b (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HRMC 23/26/3c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Criminal Justice, Forensics
Investigation, or Policing at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 3 years’ experience at supervisory level in investigation environment is
required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental
Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standards. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge of Anti-corruption Framework. Knowledge and
experience of the Criminal Justice System. Knowledge of Promotion
Administration of Justice Act. Understanding of the Departmental legislation as
well as Human Resources Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of
investigations principles and processes. Knowledge of the planning,
implementation and evaluation/monitoring of enforcement. Knowledge of
relevant South African legislation and corporate governance principles. A valid
drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Honesty and
Integrity. Programme and Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision
Making. Influencing and networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and
improvement. Conflict resolution and management. Confidentiality. Ability to
work independently and under pressure, managing multiple cases and
deadlines. Presentation Skill. Communication Skill. Planning and Organising
Skill. Computer literacy. Investigation skills. Capability and leadership skills.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Draft reports and provide recommendations pertaining
to the findings of the investigations. Coordinate with the Directorate:
Investigations on activities of the province regarding investigations in the
province. Scrutinize information received pertaining to corruptive activities of
officials in the province. Facilitate and provide support to various mandated
stakeholders to investigate crime and corruption. Facilitate and monitor
processes related to investigations. Investigate fraud and corruption
perpetrated by officials/ outside syndicates. Investigate, verify and analyse
crime and corruption in line with investigation methodologies. Facilitate and
open files or dockets of investigations. Facilitate, develop and interpret
statistical information on investigating cases. Timeously follow up with other
units on complaints and provide feedback on complainant/s within reasonable
time frame. Monitor and maintain the intelligence management system in the
province. Testify in disciplinary and criminal proceedings as and when required.
Facilitate the development, communicate, enforce related policies and
procedures. Facilitate the development, performance and delivery of the
internal support to the unit, to produce reliable and delivery solutions, to
maximise performance and profitability against pre-agreed targets. Conduct
ongoing training and awareness programmes for employees and management
about the hotline, disciplinary policies, and the code of conduct as required.
Ensure business transformation and partnership with various stakeholders.
Compile tactical plans aligned to business requirements. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders on matters related to the investigation. Benchmark
with various institutions for best practice. Contributes towards the formulation
of investigation Framework, policies, processes and circulars. Enforce
compliance to regulations and policies guidelines in the department. Monitor
and maintain issues related to investigation practices and security breaches by
staff. Participate in the activities in relevant structures i.e. Investigations
Information Coordination Committee (IICC) and the South African Banking Risk
Information Centre (SABRIC). Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to required format.
Keep up to date with compliance and regulatory requirements and liaise with
all relevant stakeholders within and external to the Organisation to ensure
accurate implementation. Develop the activity plan for the unit and ensure
effective prioritisation and resource planning. Agree on the training and
development needs of the unit. Implement effective talent management
56
processes within the unit (attraction, retention, development). Administer the
implementation of compliant performance management. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama Tel No: (043) 604 6417
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200.
POST 16/73 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SYSTEMS AUDIT REF NO: HRMC
23/26/4
Chief Directorate: Information Systems Audit
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Computer Science, Information Systems or
Internal Auditing at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ of
supervisory / junior management experience in an internal auditing
environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Functional knowledge of data analysis software such as ACL Analytics, Arbutus
and or other relevant software. Knowledge of the Protection of information Act
84 of 1982 and the Promotion of Access to information Act 2 of 2000.
Knowledge of international Internal Audit Standards. Knowledge of
Professional Standards for the Practice of Internal Auditing. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act and National Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Finance and Accounting Systems and Practices. Knowledge of
King IV report and governance principles. Knowledge of the Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (IIA SA) and Global prescripts. Excellent abilities and vast
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Client orientation and customer
focus. Business continuity. Financial Administration. Project Management.
Decision making. Attention to detail. Influencing and networking. Business
Report Writing. Problem solving and analysis. Conflict management and
resolution. Presentation skills. Interpersonal skills. Communication skills.
Planning and Organizing. Presentation skills. Strong data analysis skills.
Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Execute audit operations in line with audit standards. Participate
in the development of the strategic risk-based audit plans. Participate in the
development of the annual audit operational plan. Prepare comprehensive
Audit Planning Memoranda. Formulate audit programs based on preliminary
survey outcomes. Develop audit questionnaires addressing identified risks
across various audit areas. Provide input into the maintenance and
enhancement of audit methodologies and techniques. Coordinate and provide
technical support for the Teammate audit management software. Facilitate the
execution of Computer -Assisted Audit Techniques (CAAT’s) within the
directorate. Execute and manage Audit procedures and reporting.
Implementation of policies, procedures, directives, acts and regulations.
Ensure risk and compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Motshegoe Tel No: (012) 406 4252
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
57
POST 16/74 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMC 23/26/5 (X3
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Risk Management
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Risk Management, Financial Management,
Accounting, or Internal Audit at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’
supervisory / junior Management experience is required. Experience in Risk
Management environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public
service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government
Structures. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and National
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the National Treasury Public Sector Risk
Management Framework. Ability to work independently and within a team.
Excellent abilities and vast experience in project management, project
optimization, and the use of online systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness
to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Client
orientation and customer focus. Service delivery innovation. Knowledge
management. Decision making. Problem solving and conflict management.
Influencing and networking. Business Report Writing. Problem solving and
analysis. Presentation skills. Interpersonal relations. Communication skills.
Facilitation skills. Presentation skills. Negotiation skills. Computer literacy.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Support DHA staff in the implementation of risk management,
risk assessment and risk reporting processes. Coordinate in facilitating the
identification and management of risk to ensure that risks assessment results
are fully recorded. Facilitate in ensuring proper communication of Risk
Management processes. Coordinate the development of risk mitigating
strategies by the risk owners and risk sponsors and report the status thereof.
Facilitate maintenance of the overall risk registers across the Department.
Maintains the satisfactory operation of the risk management and compliance
software. Conduct research in the best practices, develops and refines risk
modelling approaches and methodologies. Supports all staff on the Enterprise
Risk Management and Compliance risks management processes. Coordinate
the network of risk representatives, owners and sponsors in the monitoring of
risks of their respective areas. Ensure continuous appointment of risk
representatives, Ensure continuous appointment of risk. Risk Nodal points
across the Department. Ensure awareness to all employees of the department
in risk management and governance matters. Establish, maintain and ensure
a good working relationship with the Department and relevant stakeholders.
Implementation of policies, procedures, directives, acts and regulations.
Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance risk management.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 16/75 : CONTACT CENTRE TEAM LEADER REF NO: HRMC 23/26/6 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Contact Centre Operations
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management and Administration,
Social Science, Contact Centre or related field of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 2 Years’ experience at Supervisory level is required.
Extensive experience in Customer Service Management. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of
all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well
as Government Structures. Knowledge of and understanding of the
Departmental Standard Operating Procedures. Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Information Management Acts (PAIA and POPIA). Knowledge and
understanding of the Batho Pele Principles and Public Service Regulatory
Framework. A valid drivers’ license. Shift work is required. Required skills and
58
competencies: Leadership skills. Problem Solving skills. Client orientation and
customer focus. Planning and Organizing. Strong Analytical skills. Written and
verbal communication. Administrative skills. Results and achievement driven.
Multitasking. Time Management. Report writing skills. Interpersonal relations.
Conflict resolution. Coaching. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and
Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage and monitor the team to ensure operational efficiency.
Ensure agreed contact centre standards are consistently met. Supervise day
to day operations of the contact centre. Consistently monitor staff levels and
liaise with management regarding required adjustment. Identify customer
needs and provide information for updates of both the frequently asked
questions and knowledge base. Advise management of product knowledge
gaps. Assist consultants with complex queries and irate client by providing
guidance and information. Handling escalated queries and complaints from
employees. Escalate complex queries to Tier 2 Case Resolutions officers.
Compile teams Management Information System reports and identify gaps.
Analyse daily reports and effect improvement plans to alleviate non-
achievements of SLA and targets. Evaluate contacts / interactions and cases
logged for quality assurance purposes, identify gaps and conduct coaching,
mentoring and development of the contact centre consultants. Monitor
operational systems and recommend changes / update to improve
performance. Implement policies and procedures in line with the approved
Framework. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
59
ANNEXURE L
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate hand delivered at Benstra
Building, 473 Stanza Bopape Street, Pretoria or emailed to
Recruitment10@ipid.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. Due to the large number
of applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged,
if you have not been contacted within three (3) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for the post will be required to submit the documents on
or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate will have to
undergo security vetting. His / her character should be beyond reproach. The
appointment is subject to security clearance, verification of qualifications and
competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Applicants must declare
any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations
against them. Should this be uncovered during / after the interview took place,
the application will not be considered and in the unlikely event, that the person
has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security vetting
process. All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict
of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. The successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. The
suitable candidate will be selected with the intention of promoting representivity
and achieving affirmative action targets as contemplated in the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate
reserves the right to fill or not fill the post.
OTHER POST
POST 16/76 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSETS MANAGEMENT REF NO: Q9/2026/28
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in Supply Chain Management,
Logistics, Transport and Asset Management, bachelor’s in commerce. 3-5
years’ related Asset management and Transport management experience at
supervisory level. A driver’s license. Knowledge Requirement: Knowledge of
LOGIS, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Transport and Fleet management
60
frameworks SCM regulations, practice notes, circulars, policy frameworks.
Competencies: Results-driven. Planning skills, Creativity. Leadership. Change
management skills. Team Participation Concern for Quality and Order. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Systems Thinking. Information Sharing. Integrity/
Honesty. Emotional Intelligence. Effective Communication. Commitment to
Learning. Computer literacy. Client Service Orientation.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (movable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers: Receipt of all moveable
assets. Perform quantity and quality control. Allocation and bar code the
assets. Capturing asset information in the relevant registers. Monitor and
review the allocation of assets to asset holders. Determination of the asset
allocation according to the asset management policy and procedures of the
department. Capturing asset information on the inventory list of the asset
holder. Issuing of asset and inventory list to asset holder. The delivery of assets
to the asset holder. Approval of the moveable asset register updates. Oversee
and review the monitoring of assets in accordance with the relevant policy and
procedures. Monitoring assets for compliance with asset control prescripts.
Monitoring assets for physical condition, utilization functionality and financial
performance. Monitoring the performance of asset verification according to
prescribed time frames. Compile reports on the state of assets. Promote
correct implementation of sound asset management practices by: Informing,
guiding and advising departmental employees on asset management matters;
and Contributing to the design and development of asset management
systems, policies, strategic and annual physical asset management planning.
Supervise employees to ensure sound physical asset management. This
would, inter alia, entail the following: General supervision of employees.
Allocate duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees.
Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all
supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor
work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
Address enquiries and provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and
control. Manage departmental fleet in accordance with transport policies and
Treasury guidelines: Vehicle allocation and utilization. Trip authorizations and
logbook monitoring. Oversee fuel usage and fuel card management. Oversee
maintenance schedules and repairs. Oversee vehicle licensing and insurance
compliance. Monitor misuse, irregular usage, and cost inefficiencies. Maintain
a fleet register aligned with asset records. Compile reports on fleet
performance, cost per vehicle, usage trends. Ensure compliance with official
transport policies. Ensure compliance with loss control procedures (accidents,
damages). Control and safeguarding of all supply chain documentation.
Implementation of secure document management and filing systems aligned
to PFMA/MFMA and National Treasury SCM guidelines. Enforcement of
access control measures for all physical and electronic SCM records.
Maintenance of accurate and complete audit ready records for all procurement
processes. Application of confidentiality and information protection standards
for supplier and bid information. Regular mon-itoring, review, and verification of
SCM documentation for compliance and integrity. Provisi-on of secure storage,
backup, and archiving solutions for long term record retention. Controlled
handling, movement, and disposal procedures for sensitive SCM
documentation. Reporting and Governanc-e. Compile and submit monthly,
quarterly an annual asset and fleet reports. Provide inputs to the Annual
Financial Statements (AFS) and the Interim Financial Reporting (IFR). Monitor
audit findings and implement action plans. Ensure compliance with PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and Internal SCM policies. Policy Development and
Advisory Services. Contribute to the development and review of Asset
management policies and Transport/ Fleet Management policies. Provide
guidance to officials on asset control procedures and fleet usage compliance.
Support implementation of improved systems and controls. Risk Management
and Internal Controls. Identify and mitigate risks related to asset losses misuse
of vehicles and weak internal controls. Strengthen segregation of duties.
Strengthen approval processes. People Management. Supervise and manage
staff. Allocate duties and monitor performance. Conduct performance reviews
(PMDS). Ensure staff training and development. Ensure adherence to policies
and procedures. Promote culture of accountability and compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Nteo Tel No: (012) 399 0000
61
ANNEXURE M
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target. JICS
reserves the rights to fill these positions.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June at 16:00 (walk-in) and 20:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview following the
communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-
RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994.
62
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/77 : SENIOR CASE OFFICER: COMPLAINTS REF NO: JI 19/2026
Directorate: Legal Services – Complaints Unit
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior Certificate, BProc/ LLB
Degree or other relevant recognized legal qualification on NQF 7 as recognised
by SAQA. 1–3-year relevant working experience of which 1 year must be in a
supervisory capacity. Computer literate. Proven competency in constitutional
law, human rights law, correctional law, criminal procedure, evidential law and
administrative law. Proficiency in English and at least one other official
language. Ability to write analytically. Valid driver’s license is essential,
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to receive and adjudicate inmate
complaints and maintain proper records with a view to analysing systematic
practices and reporting thereon. Provide reports to the Manager Complaints
Unit. Liaison with Department of Correctional Services, Visitors Committees
(VC) Independent Correctional Centre Visitors (ICCV) and stakeholders.
Supervise administrative staff of the Complaints unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Wesson Tel No: (021) 421 1012
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/jFWVCcr7zTLYRpZv8 or hand delivered to Block C3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources
POST 16/78 : INDEPENDENT CORRECTIONAL CENTRE VISITOR
(36-month contract appointment)
SALARY : R89 046 per annum (3/8th, Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits.
CENTRE : Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region:
Umzinto Ref No: JI 20/2026
Eastern Cape Management Region:
Grahamstown Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 21/2026
Port Elizabeth Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 22/2026
Middelburg Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 23/2026
Central Management Region:
Goedemoed Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 24/2026
Vereeniging Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 25/2026
Regional Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: JI 26/2026
Northern Management Region:
Leeuwkop Med A Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 27/2026
Leeuwkop Med B Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 28/2026
Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 29/2026
Devon Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 30/2026
Thohoyandou Correctional Centre Ref No: JI 31/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior certificate. Computer
literate and accurate. A recommendation / nomination as an ICCV by a
community organization (not older than six (6) months) must be attached to
your application. Ability to work independently and as a team. Public spirited
and sound knowledge of the Batho Pele principles. Assertiveness and ability
to work under pressure. Ability to communicate (verbally and in writing).
Driver’s licence will be an added advantage. Preference will be given to
qualifying applications received from individuals residing in communities which
are in the vicinity of the correctional centre where the post needs to be filled.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible to visit the correctional facility
daily and engage with inmates and DCS officials on complaints and other
matters. Monitor the conditions of incarceration and report on findings. Monitor
and report on all instances of deaths, segregation, use of mechanical restraints
and use of force in the centre. Support officials from JICS during inspections
and investigations. Handle administrative tasks which include dealing with and
capturing of inmate complaints, mandatory matters and detailed report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region: Ms. D Mocumi Tel No: (031) 366 1900
Eastern Cape Management Region: Ms N Sifesane Tel No: (043) 722 2729
Central Management Region: Ms Y Mdlalose Tel No: (051) 4301954
Northern Management Region: Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
63
APPLICATIONS : Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region: Submitted online through the links
below or hand delivered to Aqua Sky Building, 275 Anton Lembede Street, 8th
Floor, Durban 4001. Umzinto Correctional Centre:
https://forms.gle/tW69PZfaXU65w7UJ8
Eastern Cape Management Region: Submitted online through the links below
or hand delivered to East London Magistrates Court, 3rd floor, room 407,
Buffalo Street, East London, 5200.
Grahamstown: https://forms.gle/pPr8QikPFXNbV4Pa8
Port Elizabeth: https://forms.gle/hBLZz22yP67MzVtn9
Middelburg: https://forms.gle/NjQxVT8UkwKPjFw9A
Central Management Region:
Submitted online through the links below or hand delivered to Fedsure House,
3rd Floor 62 St Andrews Street, Bloemfontein, 9300.
Goedemoed Correctional Centre: https://forms.gle/cYBNQWkgyzrG6zwa7
Vereeniging Centre: https://forms.gle/4rmUHnRb8cF3z1NG7
Regional Office: Bloemfontein: https://forms.gle/VZJhqGkAaxS28jdM8
Northern Management Region:
Submitted online through the links mentioned below or hand delivered to Block
C 3, Eco Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
Leeuwkop Med A Correctional Centre: https://forms.gle/vsptvhdkaxnag1R19
Leeuwkop Med B Correctional Centre:
https://forms.gle/D6XxmQZo8dhRxtvM8
Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre: https://forms.gle/z4TYvVUhdjV7nifp9
Devon Correctional Centre: https://forms.gle/EqBpFwzmK91FopZz7
Thohoyandou Correctional Centre: https://forms.gle/G4Sgseb5NMx7Nyw9A
64
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process, the
selection committee will recommend candidates for a generic management
competency assessment, as per the Department of public Service and
Administration (DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’
managerial competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false
or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Did not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right no to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/79 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CLUSTER COORDINATION AND
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/24
Chief Directorate: Cluster Coordination, Intergovernmental and Stakeholder
Relations
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
65
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Development Studies / Social Science / Political Science (NQF
level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry
Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years’
experience at a senior managerial level. Proven leadership and management
of government programmes. Stakeholder management and international
relations. Coordinated and integrated planning, monitoring and reporting. Job
related knowledge: Public Service, Cabinet and Parliamentary system,
Government coordinating systems and structures, Government programmes,
Policies and legislation, Intergovernmental framework, Spheres of government
and its powers and functions, National, provincial and local dynamics,
Government planning systems and processes. Job related skills: Problem
solving and Decision-making, Coordination and stakeholder management,
Conflict management, Managerial, Liaison at high level, Advanced computer
and Communication (verbal and written). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Promote active collaboration between Minister and departments with related
mandates and functions. Provide support to the department and coordinate the
contribution of the department in cluster work. Economic Sectors Investment
and Infrastructure Development Cluster. Social Protection, Human
Development cluster. International relations and cooperation cluster.
Coordinate departmental contribution to the compilation reports to the cabinet
Lekgotla. Act as a link between the department and all clusters. Participate and
contribute to cluster task teams. Provide secretariat services to the Inter-
Ministerial Committee (IMC) on land reform and agriculture. Manage,
coordination of the implementation of the programme of action in line with the
Minister performance agreement and reporting to Cabinet on progress made.
Facilitate bottom-up integrated planning towards the development of the
Programme of Action in line with the Minister’s performance agreement.
Coordinate the contribution of the three spheres of government and the sector
departments towards the implementation of the Programme of Action. Monitor
and report progress made in implementing the Programme of Action through
relevant structures. Manage coordinating task teams and the Technical
Implementation Forum. Facilitate coherent and integrated planning and
implementation across spheres. Facilitate the inter-sector and inter-sphere
coordination and integration across the three spheres of government. Facilitate
the Development and the operationalisation of the Intergovernmental relations
strategy. Provide support and guidance to the department on
Intergovernmental relations and the implementation of the District
Development model in line with the departmental mandate. Support the
Ministers events where it concerns Intergovernmental relations across the
spheres. Manage the national Intergovernmental relations fora (Mintech and
MinMEC). Facilitate the development and implementation of Protocols /
Memorandum of Understandings with sector departments. Manage external
and international stakeholder relations. Facilitate and promote stakeholder
relations to effect cooperation and coordination between the department and
international stakeholders. Develop framework and guidelines to manage
international stakeholder relations in equitable manner. Manage and promote
departmental participation international fora in line with departmental mandate.
Monitor facilitate and report on multi and bi-lateral agreements, Liaise with the
Department of International Relations and Cooperation. Mobilise, coordinate
and manage external stakeholders to support the departmental mandate.
Manage provision of protocol service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Khumalo Tel No: (012) 312 8425
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post24@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
66
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/23
Directorate: Human Resource Strategy, Planning and Systems
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Human Resource Management / Public
Management / Public Administration (NQF level 6), or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ junior management experience in Human
Resource environment. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of human resource
policies. Human resource prescripts. Job related skills: Communication (verbal
and written). Strategic planning and leadership. Presentation and facilitation.
Conceptual skills and human relations. Policy drafting (Report writing).
Negotiations and consultation with relevant key stakeholders. Computer
literacy. Problem solving. A valid driver’s licence. Working irregular hours.
Travelling will be required.
DUTIES : Monitor human resource policy development, reviewed, aligned, facilitated and
implemented in the Department. Identify policies to be developed / amended
and aligned. Undertake gap analysis / identify problems / challenges / research
and best practices as and when required. Compile / draft policies. Request
inputs / comment from stakeholders. Consider and consolidate inputs /
comment. Finalise draft policies. Consult policy at relevant forums
(components, task teams, labour, Department Bargaining Chamber,
management meetings). Finalise policies for consideration for approval from
management (prepare memorandum / presentation). Assist and manage
implementation of policies (communication). Monitor human resource
delegations regarding Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations
developed / reviewed and implemented in Department. Identify human
resource functions to be delegated in accordance with prescripts / legislation.
Compile / draft delegations. Request inputs / comment from relevant
stakeholders. Consider and consolidate inputs / comment. Compile and finalise
draft delegations (set of delegations). Consult draft delegations at relevant
forums if necessary. Finalise delegations for considerations for approval from
management (prepare memorandum / presentation). Assist and manage
implementation of delegations (communication). Ensuring consistent
implementation and application of human resource policies in the Department
are advocated to. Issue / distribute approved policies. Arrange information
sessions to advocate relevant policy (via Teams, Zoom or venue). Prepare /
compile presentation on matter. Issue / distribute Internal Communication
Messenger (ICM) with details of the session. Render / assist / deal / advise on
issues / matters and cases. Ensure consistent implementation and application
of human resource delegations are advocated throughout the Department.
Issue / distribute approved / amended delegations. Arrange information
sessions to advocate relevant delegations (via Teams, Zoom or venue).
Prepare / compile presentation on matter. Issue / distribute ICM with details of
the session. Render / assist/ deal / advise on issues / matters and cases.
Manage and deal with human resource related administrative functions /
activities / tasks / request / instructions as requested / instructed by
Management. Render / assist / deal / advise on issues / matters and cases as
and when required. Analyse / do research and obtain relevant prescripts.
Consult relevant role players (Labour, legal, relevant Component). Compile
response / memorandum for consideration / approval. Communicate approval
/ advise / outcome of decision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P.J Van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post23@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African and
Coloured Females and Persons with disabilities.
67
POST 16/81 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/25
Directorate: Secretariat Support Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Office Management and Technology /
Business Administration / Public Administration (NQF Level 6) or related
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience at supervisory level in
a professional / corporate secretariat environment. Job related knowledge:
Technology proficiency with Microsoft Office / Office 365. Knowledge of
Business writing for reports and minutes writing in English Language.
Understanding of Department objectives, government priorities. Knowledge of
government prescripts and the secretariat environment (South African
Constitution, Public Service Act, Corporate Governance Principles, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations, Minimum Information Security
Standards, National Archives Act, Public Finance Management Act, National
Treasury Regulation, Protection of Personal Information Act, The Public
Service Code of Conduct, DLRRD policies and guidelines). Job related skills:
Interpersonal skills coupled with strong customer service orientation. Time
management, Flexibility, and discretion. Planning and organising. Advance
computer operating and typing skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal
and written). Minutes taking and report writing skills with attention to detail.
Listening, analysis and presentation skills. Problem solving skills and project
management skills. Supervisory skills. Teamwork. Ability to work under
pressure and willingness to work irregular hours (overtime), including
weekends. A valid driver’s licence. Personal Attributes: High level of
confidentiality, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Facilitate logistical arrangements for top and executive management meetings
in compliance with the prescribed departmental policies and guidelines.
Coordinate the completion of supply chain prescribed forms for procurement
of goods and services. Follow-up on quotations requests of goods and services
for top management and executive meetings. Coordinate receipt of order
number from supply chain management. Evaluate services of goods procured.
Manage the process of setting up boardrooms for executive management
meetings. Manage the process of recording proceedings of the meetings.
Ensure safekeeping of the recording of equipment (laptop, microphone, and
data projector) procured by the Directorate. Liaise with Directorate: Facilities
to ensure that maintenance of boardrooms allocated for executive and top
management meetings (Cleaning bathrooms, air conditioning, power supply
etc). Provide administrative and secretariat support service to the executive
and top management governance structures according to the approved
DLRRD meetings protocol and guidelines. Issue meeting notices for various
platforms (virtual and in-person meetings). Call for agenda items for
discussions at relevant committees. Compile the draft agenda to all members.
Submit the agenda to the designated chairperson for approval. Circulate
approved agenda to all members. Compile meeting packs (Agenda, previous
minutes, action list and discussion documents). Compile minutes and action-
decision list, check accuracy of the first draft and circulate to members for
comments / inputs. Incorporate inputs and comments and table minutes to the
relevant committees for adoption. Ensure that minutes are registered, scanned,
and filed accordingly. Manage the directorate repository of documents for top
and executive management meetings. Coordinate the meetings attendance
process flow in adherence to the protocol. Compile the directorate monthly
reporting and compliance register. Monitor the implementation of key decisions
taken in meetings. Monitor and follow-up on the implementation of decisions.
Compile key decisions status reports for tabling to the relevant committees.
Compile decision registers for analysis and reporting on quarterly basis to the
relevant committees. Report on implementation of decisions on quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Gqabi Tel No: (012) 312 8693
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post25@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
68
POST 16/82 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/26 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Forensic Investigations
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Forensic Investigation / Law / Auditing /
Forensic Accounting / Criminal Justice (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years applicable experience in Forensic
Investigations. Job related knowledge: Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners (ACFE) Professional Standards, Forensic Investigations
methodologies and procedures. Job related skills: Communication (written and
verbal), Interviewing, Analytical and problem-solving ability, Interpersonal,
Project management, Computer literacy and Investigation. A valid driver's
licence and must be willing to travel.
DUTIES : Perform the planning of the annual case management register projects
according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
investigation projects planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the
compilation on the electronic audit software of the planning phase deliverables
of the Forensic Investigations Directorate's projects methodologies, policies
and procedures on a continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy
Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise the
investigation of the annual case management register projects according to the
deliverables and timelines defined on the approved investigation projects
planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic
audit software of the investigation phase deliverables of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate's projects in line with the quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on continuous basis and report
progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
Perform and supervise the reporting of the annual case management register
projects according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
investigation projects planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the
compilation on the electronic audit software of the reporting phase deliverables
of the Forensic Investigations Directorate's projects allocated in line with the
Chief Directorate's quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures
on continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy Director. Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise the closure of the
annual case management register projects allocated to this position according
to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved investigation projects
planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic
audit software of the closure phase deliverables of the Forensic Investigations
Directorate's projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief
Directorate' s quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on
continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post26@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 16/83 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/27
Directorate: Knowledge, Information and Innovation Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. No experience required. Job related skills: Language. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organisation skills.
Computer literacy. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and Teamwork.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents / packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the component. Type letters
69
and / or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Taking and drafting of
minutes. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete procurement forms for
the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep
and maintain the asset register of the component. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the
component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component.
Arrange travelling and accommodation. Provide financial administration
support services in the component. Capture and update expenditure in the
component. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and
submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for
the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Moeketsane Tel No: (012) 312 8667
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post27@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
70
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov. za. Applications must
create a user profile by completing all required personal information and setting
up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Once registration is
complete and logged in to the system, you may browse all vacant positions.
Another option is to submit application by post or courier, quoting relevant
reference, addressed to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral and
Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively,
applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies
and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications are strongly advised to complete and attach recent Z83
application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the
Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.dpsa.gov.za and detailed Curriculum Vitae when submitting applications
on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued
by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed
(In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/84 : ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OFFICER REF NO: 072
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng Regional Office, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor's degree/Advance diploma in Town and Regional Planning /
Economics / Development Studies / Public Administration / Business
Administration / Local Economic Development / Environmental / Resource
71
Economics (NQF 7) and a valid driver's license with 2 years relevant
experience in the field of Mineral Regulation, Knowledge of: General
understanding of mining industry and relevant legislation, Understanding of
MPRDA and other relevant legislation, policies and guidelines, Familiarity with
developmental objectives of government, Skills: Interpret maps,
Communication and computer skills, Report writing, Map office Research,
Stakeholder relations. Thinking demand: Strong ability to conduct research into
and recognizing conflicts between surface development and mining titles or
regional map office, Strong ability to think laterally, identity linkages and
effectively communicate to establish co-operation between various role
players.
DUTIES : Administer land use applications. Conduct inspection, audit and assessment
of Land Use and/or Township Development applications to ascertain any
impediments. Administer the existing old order rights application in terms of re-
registration, transfer, modification and abandonments. Provide advice and
handle enquiries on surface land rights applications by external stakeholders.
Compile the record of decision (ROD) letter with recommendations for
approval. Maintain and update the surface land rights applications register
books and databases (proclaimed and unproclaimed land applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Dipotso Mokgwasi at 071 475 8354
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Indian
/Coloured or white male including persons with disability.
POST 16/85 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO CHIEF DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE
DIRECTOR GENERAL REF NO: 073
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Office Administration/Office Management and
Technology/Public Administration (NQF 6), minimum of 1 year appropriate
experience before or after qualification was obtained Knowledge of:
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/polities/prescripts and procedure, Basic
knowledge on financial administration, Skills: Language skills and ability to
communicate well with people at different level and from different background,
Good telephone etiquette, Computer literacy, Sound organisational skills, Good
people skills, High level reliability, Ability to act with tact discretion, Self-
management and motivation, Thinking demand: Ability to do research
documents and situations.
DUTIES : Provides secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager. Render
administrative support services. Provides support to manager regarding
meetings. Support the manager with the administration of the Manager’s
budget. Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure the application thereof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ndebele Tel No: (012) 444 3159
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Indian
/Coloured or white male including persons with disability.
POST 16/86 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (MINERAL STATISTICS) REF NO: 074
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) with no experience, Knowledge of: Logical, Creative,
Objective, Accurate, Skills: Communication skills (verbal and written) computer
skills, creativity and innovation, interpersonal skills, Analytical skills, Numerical,
Organising and co-ordination, Thinking demand: Logical, Creative/innovative
thinker, Objective, Accurate.
DUTIES : Capture and update statistical information. Extract information from
SAMINDEX and related databases. Provide administration support. Liaise with
mines and other organisations where figures are questionable or have not been
received.
72
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Galane Tel No: (012) 444 3735
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Indian
/Coloured or white male including persons with disability.
73
ANNEXURE P
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng/Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7,
Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor,
Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Free State Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications
to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street,
Bloemfontein, 9301.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
74
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Chief Registrar: Gauteng Division
of the High Court: Pretoria with Ref No: 2026/15/OCJ advertised on Public
Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 08 May 2026 with closing date of 22 May
2026 is withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/87 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/26/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma
in Security Management and or Risk Management. Grade A State Security
Agency Course. A minimum of three (3) years’ working experience in a security
environment of which at one (01) year must be on a supervisory level. A valid
driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and skills: Computer literacy (MS Office). Good communication skills (written
and verbal). Good people skills/interpersonal relations. General office and
project management skills. Planning and organisation skills. Exceptional report
writing skills. Problem solving skills. Ability to work independently and meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist in the management of the total security function (personnel, document,
physical assets, contingency planning and security planning) of the Office of
the Chief Justice and linked institutions. Implement the OCJ’s Security and
Risk Management policies. Development and implementation of appropriate
security measures and procedures. The development and implementation of
training and awareness programmes. Interaction with security-related and
relevant authorities including government departments (State Security Agency,
Comsec, DOJCD, etc.). Manage the private security service provider and
ensure compliance with the applicable service level agreement(s). Facilitate
internal and external audits and ensure that the office is ready with regard to
security and risk management matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. L.J Kolosa Tel No: (051) 492 4523
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D.S.J Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4573
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/26/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 16/88 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
REF NO: 2026/27/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three (3) years National Diploma in
Management Sciences/ Human Resource Management/ Public Administration/
75
Public Management or equivalent relevant qualification at NQF level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in Human
Resource environment. A driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
and understanding of the Legislation/ Prescript and framework governing the
Public Service i.e., Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Skills Development Act, Collective Agreements, Codes of Remuneration and
the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of HRM policies. Knowledge
of HR related standards, practices, processes and procedure. Knowledge of
Batho Pele Principles. Computer literacy, Analytical thinking, Problem solving
skills, Decision making skills, Motivational skills, Time management,
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Implement recruitment and selection processes in the department. Align the
adverts according to job specifications and placement of the advert in a correct
format. Place adverts in various advertising platform (DPSA circular,
Government page, and Newspapers). Coordinate the shortlisting and
interview. Disseminate selection information to panel members. Communicate
with line managers regarding selection activities in line with the legislative
requirements. Implement and monitor compliance of selection processes
within the department. Serve as a scriber during shortlisting and interviews
process. Conduct personnel suitability checks and verification of qualifications
for recommended candidates. Ensure proper recording of all received
application forms. Arrange competency assessment for recommended
candidates for SMS posts. Ensure compliance with OCJ Recruitment and
Selection Policy and Public Service prescripts. Provide administrative support
within the sub-directorate. Schedule and organise meetings. Provide
secretariat support services to the meetings. Compile minutes and memos.
Handle incoming and outgoing office correspondence. Supervise and develop
staff. Ensure general supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise
and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527/2619
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/27/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 16/89 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2026/28/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Legal Interpreting
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’ practical experience in Court Interpreting.
A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Good
communication skills, computer literacy, listening skills, good interpersonal
skills, customer service orientation, planning and organising skills, problem
solving, confidentiality, Ability to work under pressure and art of interpreting.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services in high profile matters: Interpret in complex cases.
Interpret in criminal, civil, and Labour Court. Interpret in Small claims Court.
Control and attend to personnel administrative aspects of Interpreters: Provide
and coaching to junior/ senior Interpreters. Manage performance agreement
contracts. Draw a schedule for replacement of Court Interpreters. Translate
Legal documents and exhibits: Study and analyse the source documents.
Conduct necessary research and consult. Check, edit and revise the translated
documents, procure foreign language interpreters and casuals in line with
PFMA and the relevant policy: Report statistics to be generated and escalated
76
to the cluster manager for consolidation. Authorise payments of foreign and
casual language interpreters. Develop terminology: Harvest of terminology and
database development. Provide terms and their respective meanings in the
glossary register. Supervise and develop staff: Allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/28/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 16/90 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: 2026/29/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience is required. An LLB
degree or recognised Legal degree as well as a valid driver’s license will serve
as an added advantage. The candidate must be willing to travel. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. The candidate must be willing to travel
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment, knowledge of Public Service Regulations 2016,
knowledge of Public Service Act 1994, knowledge of Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA), No. 2 of 2000, understanding of confidentiality in
Government, knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics, knowledge of the MS
Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point and
Excel, Knowledge of Office Administration, knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing Public Service, knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles, communication skills (verbal & written), problem solving skills, good
public relations skills, monitoring and analytical skills, ability to work under
pressure, ability to work independently and within a team, computer Literacy
skills (MS Teams), planning and organizing skills, report writing skills and typing
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve legal correspondence, case files and data. Update litigation register
and track case progress. Provide supply chain clerical support services within
the component: Handle sub-inventory controller for the manager’s office, Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component: maintain a leave register within the Legal Services Unit. Keep and
maintain personnel records and attendance register within the component.
Provide administrative support service: Provide logistical arrangements to
meetings, provide secretariat support services to the meetings and compile
minutes and memos.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Tshubwana Tel No: (010) 493 2581
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/29/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
77
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Themba
Dubazana. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service
and Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546
Edmond Street, Batho Pele House, Cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street,
Pretoria, Arcadia 0083, or emailed: E-mail your application to:
Advert032026@dpsa.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: (1) A
fully completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/.”From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, (2) a recent comprehensive CV, contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Note 1:
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified documents of qualifications. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All non-SA citizens must submit a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews. All shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Services (SMS) posts shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments (Technical exercise and Integrity (Ethical Conduct).
Suitable candidates identified by the selection and interview panel must
undergo, (1) competency assessment, (2) personnel suitability checks on
criminal records, citizen verification, financial records and (3) qualification
verification. Note 2: Prior to appointment the nominated candidate will be
required to complete the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme,
an online course offered by the National School of Government (NSG). The
course can be accessed from the following link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.The
successful candidate will be expected to (1) undergo vetting processes (2)
enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as (3) complete a financial interests declaration
form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/91 : DIRECTOR–GENERAL: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND
ADMINISTRATION (DPSA) REF NO: DPSA03/2026
(5 Year Contract)
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied may re-apply.
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, fully inclusive
remuneration package comprising of a basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the state’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs according to personal needs within a
framework. Plus, a 10% non-pensionable HOD allowance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: A post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) in the field of Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Business Administration/ Economic and
Management Sciences/Law or related qualification as recognized by SAQA an
additional qualification in Labour/Public Law will be an added advantage.
Experience: 10 years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Experience in
working in the South African Public Service /Public Sector/Private Sector. A
78
proven track record in leading and transforming organisations. Proven track
record and impact on organisational performance and governance. Proven
track record in policy analysis and public policy development and impact
studies. Extensive experience in leading and managing an institution or a
program. Experience in establishing and managing complex relationships and
partnerships. Advanced experience in Strategic Management, Financial
management, Human Resources Management and Risk management.
Demonstratable track record in change management. Knowledge: Advanced
knowledge of Public Administration/ Public Management theories and
practices. Extensive knowledge of relevant Government legislation, policies
and plans related to the public service/public sector. Extensive knowledge of
relevant Government legislation and policies that the department is required to
comply with. Extensive knowledge of the structure and operations of the Public
Service / Public Sector. Knowledge of systems and digital transformation.
Extensive knowledge in research, monitoring, and evaluation will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Decision-making, problem solving,
innovation, stakeholder management, diversity management, communication,
information management, interpersonal relations, facilitation, negotiation,
conflict management, analytical skills and adaptability, change management,
visionary leadership.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Minister for the Public Service and Administration; the
Director-General will be responsible for; Providing technical and administrative
support to the Ministry. Supporting the Minister in leading South Africa’s Public
Service and Administration agenda locally and internationally. Leading the
development and implementation of norms and standards/policies and
interventions for the transformation of the Public Service in line with the
mandate of the department. Serving as the Accounting Officer/ Head of
Department in line with the relevant legislative and regulatory prescripts.
Creating robust and agile policy development and reviewing environment to
ensure that the department continuously addresses the needs of the public
service. Providing strategic leadership and management of the development
and implementation of the strategies and the related plans. Providing strategic
leadership and management for the design and implementation of the requisite
systems and tools to ensure execution, monitoring, and evaluation of the
department’s strategies and plans and the reporting thereon to the Minister and
to the applicable external control points and oversight bodies. Strengthening
the department’s governance processes, compliance, and organisational
capacity to deliver on its mandate. Managing the performance and
development of employees reporting directly to the Director- General.
Promoting and coordinating inter and intra-governmental relations and
participation in the work of the Forum of South African Directors-General and
various Government clusters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Themba Dubazana: Themba.Dubazana@dpsa.gov.za or Tel No: (012) 336
11198.
79
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): The Director-General, Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner
Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention Ms NP Mudau
Pretoria Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver to AVN Building
corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms
MC. Lekganyane
Cape Town Regional Office: Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The
Regional Manager, Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape
Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. For Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Nelspruit Regional Office: Nelspruit Regional Applications: The Regional
Manager, Department of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X11280,
Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30 Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th
floor, Nelspruit. For Attention: Mr EK Nguyuza
Durban Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr Pixley
Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. For Attention: Ms NS Nxumalo
Mthatha Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X5007, Sutherland Street, Mthatha 5099 or Hand Deliver
at 29 Sutherland Street, PRD II Building, 5th Floor, Mthatha. For Attention: Ms
N Mzalisi
Mmabatho Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho 2735, or hand deliver:
810 Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Street. Unit 3, Mmabatho. For
Attention: Mr. T. Oagile
Gqeberha Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X 3913, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Hand delivery:
Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056.
For Attention: Ms S Mafanya/ Ms. P Buwa
Polokwane Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand deliver at 78 Hans van
Rensburg Street, Old Mutual Building, 1st Floor, Polokwane. For Attention: Mr.
NJ Khotsa
Johannesburg Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X3 Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand Deliver to No 78
Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017. For Attention: Mr M Mudau
Nelspruit Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical
Address: 30 Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th floor, Nelspruit. For Attention:
Mr EK Nguyuza
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
80
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a single PDF document or one attachment
per application to the email address designated on the specific position. Kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15MB.
It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is
successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT (UDM) REF NO:
2026/189
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service)
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/National Diploma
in Public Management/Business Administration/ Real Estate Management.
Relevant years of working experience at a Junior Management/ Assistant
Director equivalent level in the relevant field. A Valid Driver’s License.
Knowledge of Works Control System (WCS); Basic Accounting System (BAS);
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); Treasury Regulations; Financial
management and administration; Technical knowledge of the built
environment; project management; construction regulations; occupational
health and safety; Emerging Contractor Development Programme; Financial
administration processes and systems; maintenance of databases and
procurement processes and systems. Skills: Advanced numeracy; organising;
interpersonal skills; diplomacy; ability to follow a pro-active and creative
problem; solving approach; communication and advanced computer literacy.
DUTIES : To coordinate the accommodation portfolio for client Departments. Develop,
review and maintain user demand management policies and procedures:
Undertake research on current best practices in relation to property
management. Develop, implement and maintain user demand management
policies, procedures and frameworks in line with applicable prescripts. Ensure
compliance with related prescripts, delegations and procedures. Communicate
81
all property user demand management policies and procedures to relevant
stakeholders. Establish proper user demand governance processes and
internal control measures. Coordinate the provision of accommodation to client
departments: Manage the verification of accommodation particulars to
determine correctness. Manage the assessment and analysis of
accommodation requirements. Ensure that procurement instructions or pre-
designed information requests are issued to relevant service providers. Liaise
with client departments regarding leasing issues, facilities management and
maintenance. Liaise and interact with service providers on regular basis. Assist
client with request for funding of accommodation needs. Extract reports and
data on request of the client and submit to confirm alternative accommodation
arrangements. Manage the co-ordination and monitoring of the budget and
expenditure levels for Client Departments: Oversee the analysis of budget on
WCS and PACE. Monitor expenditure levels. Manage the verification of funds
which are deposited in client departments’ suspense account. Verify if
deposited funds are accounted for and allocated to the correct services.
Conduct the monthly reconciliation of the suspense account. Prepare cost
analyses for the development and leasing of accommodation. Align cash flows,
project plans and quality reports per services on a monthly basis. Compile
client specific reports of expenditure and distribute reports to client
departments. Manage the sub-directorate. Ensure improved client relationship
management and integrated planning and coordination.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Matlala Tel No: (012) 406 2194
APPLICATIONS : Mmabatho email to: RecruitMBT26-00@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/93 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONTRACTOR DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES AND
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE REF NO: 2026/190
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma Social Sciences/ Built Environment or related field. Relevant
experience at a Junior Management / Assistant Director Level. Knowledge:
Expanded Public Works Programme. National Youth Service programme.
Youth Development programmes. Skills and Training processes. Programme
and Project Management. PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations. Departmental standards and regulations. Skills:
Analytical thinking. Computer literacy. Effective communication (verbal and
written). Relationship management. Personal Attributes: Innovative, creative,
trustworthy, hardworking, self-motivated, ability to work under pressure,
analytical thinking, facilitation, research.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of the EPWP National Youth Service and
Contractor Development initiatives programme. Develop a strategy on efficient
implementation of NYS and CDI projects. Identify projects within the public
works portfolios for the implementation of EPWP and NYS. Promote the
creation of work opportunities and increase of the labour-intensity of DPWI
projects. Provide support with the planning and design of DPWI projects so that
they contribute to EPWP and NYS. Advise provincial public works departments
and municipalities with establishing EPWP NYS programmes in the built
environment and the implementation of the NYS projects model. Establish and
maintain relations with internal and external stakeholders. Compile and submit
updated reports on progress and management of NYS and CDI projects.
Monitor the implementation of memorandum of understanding between the
department and the implementing bodies. Coordinate NYS beneficiaries’
recruitment and training processes. Facilitate formal training, workshops and
information sessions for programmes participants. Oversee assessment
interviews and evaluation of programmes participants for inclusion on the
programmes databases. Coordinate with the EPWP training and project team
to compile training needs. Ensure that database with all beneficiary details is
updated timorously. Collect data of statistics for jobs created in the NYS
category and the general EPWP building maintenance projects. Facilitate
registration of suitable programme participants. Facilitate the establishment of
development support services providers (training and mentoring). Monitor and
report on the implementation of EPWP NYS programmes within the DPWI.
Develop and implement innovative management and quality assurance models
for the programmes. Monitor performance assessment of programmes
participants. Conduct site visits and attend site meetings. Continuously monitor
82
and report on the development of the programme. Identify areas that need
improvement. Provide input with regard to feedback reports on the
programmes within the DPWI. Promote the implementation of EPWP within the
Facilities Management Portfolio within DPWI. Identify Facilities Management
projects that can contribute towards the EPWP. Develop models to promote
the implementation of EPWP on Facilities Management programmes. Conduct
site visits on Facilities Management projects to monitor EPWP implementation.
Develop guidelines for EPWP implementation on Facilities Management
projects within DPWI. Manage the Sub-Directorate. Establish and maintain
appropriate internal controls and reporting systems in order to meet
performance expectations. Maintain of discipline. Manage performance and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kutumane Tel No: (012) 492 1499
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-13@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT (UDM) REF NO:
2026/191
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Public Administration / Real Estate Management or related field.
Relevant years of experience within the field. The candidate must have
knowledge of Work Control System (WCS), Basic Accounting System (BAS),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, financial
management and administration, technical knowledge of the built environment,
project management, construction regulations, occupational health and safety,
Emerging Contractor Development Programme, financial administration
processes and systems, maintenance of databases, procurement processes
and systems. Skills: Advanced numeracy, organising, interpersonal skills,
diplomacy and ability to follow a pro-active and creative problem; solving
approach, communication, advanced computer literacy. A valid driver’s licence.
Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements and
Committed to designated tasks.
DUTIES : Apply applicable policies, methods, best practices and standards as well as
ensure compliance with relevant user demand management regulations,
Conduct research on current best practices in relation to user demand
management. Facilitate the delivery of the accommodation services for Client
Departments, Verify accommodation particulars to determine correctness. Co-
ordinate and monitor the budget and expenditure levels of clients Department,
Analyse budget on WCS and PACE.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Matlala Tel No: (012) 406 2194
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-14@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/95 : CONTROL WORKS MANAGER: BUILDING REF NO: 2026/192
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Diploma (T/N/S streams) (NQF 6) in Building/Civil or
equivalent, OR (N3 and a passed trade test in the building environment OR
registration as an engineering technician and more than 6 years appropriate
experience in Built environment). A valid driver’s license. Applicable knowledge
of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; National Building Regulations and
Building Standards, technical knowledge of the built environment, procurement
process and systems, property and facilities management. Computer literacy,
technical report writing, good verbal and written communication, programme
and project management, relationship management, negotiation, problem
solving, numeracy and financial administration. Resourceful, creative, ability to
communicate at all levels, ability to work under stressful situations, assertive,
self-motivated, people orientated, hard-working and trustworthy.
DUTIES : Facilitate, co-ordination and control the implementation of new works, repairs
and renovation and maintenance; Allocate tasks and projects in relation to the
maintenance of existing and new works, monitor the projects and expenditure
on current maintenance and minor new works projects and attend monthly
project meeting with relevant stakeholders. Ensure that the Works Control
System is updated, provide reports and estimates and recommend and monitor
expenditure and payment. Ensure accuracy of tender documents,
83
specifications and bills of quantities. Promote and assist SMMEs BBBEE and
PPPs. Promote the initiative of the Extended Public Works Programme
(EPWP). Ensure effective contract administration through the resolution of
disputes. Ensure that the relevant project documentation for new and existing
structures is compiled; develop and interpret plans and sketches, draw-up
quotation documents and complies specifications, bills of quantities and bid
documents, adjudicate and provide recommendations on quotations and bid.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects. Manage the
activities of contractors and consultants; provide advice and guidance to
contractors and consultants in respect of compliance to legislation, regulations
and procedures, put systems and procedures in place to ensure contractors
and consultant adhere to legislation, regulations and procedures. Ensure
effective contract administration. Verify invoices and certify claims for fees.
Check and process variation orders and requests for the extension of
deadlines. Brief contractors and consultants on projects and certify claims for
fees. Facilitate and resolve problems emanating from projects and develop
reports on projects. Supervise the performance and conduct of subordinates,
identify skills development needs and and provide training and development
opportunities for subordinates. Provide advice and guidance on the
interpretation and application of legislation, policies and procedures. Ensure
quality control and effective and efficient workflow of work done by works
inspectors and report on all work allocated Administer the department
performance and development systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WN. Gumede Tel No: (012) 310 5183
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-37@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/96 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: UTILISATION AND CONTRACT
ADMINISTRATION PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/193
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Real Estate Management, Property Law or in related field of study.
Relevant year of experience in the field. A valid driver's license, prepared to
travel, willingness to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Investigate the utilisation potential of state properties: Undertake site visits and
conditions surveys to determine utilisation potentials. Assess the provisions of
and remove restrictive conditions from title deeds regarding the utilisation of
state properties. Facilitate the rezoning of properties. Ensure initiation process
for the appointment and employment of professionals (valuers, land surveyors
and security) as required. Ensure the optimal utilisation of state properties-
Facilitate cost determinations and verifications. Verify property details and
maintain the Property Management Information System and Fixed Asset
Register. Take measures against unlawful occupations. Ensure the clearing of
state land. Ensure Initiation of fire protection measures are applied at vacant
state land. Liaise with clients to determine their property-related
requirements/specifications. Reserve properties according to client
requirements. Introduce available properties to potential clients. Identify
redundant state properties for disposal. Manage property-related contracts and
agreements Undertake tenant verifications. Administrate the drafting and
conclusion of contracts and agreements. Manage the implementation of the
conditions of lease agreements, particularly with regard to contract milestones.
Initiation of Legal Services Process and written off of bad debts. Supervise
employees to ensure effective delivery service. General supervision of
employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered
by supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the
work. Manage performance and conduct discipline supervisees. Ensure that all
supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Tshilwane Tel No: (012) 310-5127
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-38@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/97 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT MANAGEMENT (SCM) REF NO:
2026/194
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
84
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management / Procurement / Logistics / Financial
Management / Cost Management or related field with appropriate relevant
years of experience. Must be experienced in Public Sector Contract
Management. Possession of a valid driver’s License. People management and
leadership skills. Attention to detail. Good communication skills. Problem
solving skills. Analytical skills. Time Management skills. Ability to perform under
pressure. Knowledge, understanding and application of relevant applicable
acts. Computer Literacy. Essential Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies
Required: The successful candidate must have a thorough knowledge of
contract management. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Frameworks
such as the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and regulations,
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act (BBBEE), Treasury Practice
Notes, and the Constitution of Bid Committees and contracts. Excellent
knowledge of Supply Chain Management processes, Government
Procurement Systems, policy development, and risk management. Knowledge
of policy development and implementation. Knowledge of Organizational and
government structures. Knowledge of Government legislation. Knowledge of
SCM practice notes, circular and policy frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service regulatory framework, e.g., Public Service
Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, BAS, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Act, and Service Delivery Frameworks.
Understanding of Government budgeting processes. Good working knowledge
of SCM administration, Ability to communicate at all levels with relevant
stakeholders including Provincial & National Departments, Senior
Management, Private Sector Organizations, and Public Entities. Financial and
supply chain management skills, Research skills, and knowledge of strategic
planning and budgeting. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies,
strategies, and legislation. Planning and organizing skills, Interpersonal skills,
Presentation skills, Report-writing skills, Project management. Proficiency in
chairing meetings, decision-making skills, and ability to provide leadership
Accountability and ethical conduct. Client orientation and customer focus.
Problem-solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Facilitate, monitor, analyse and determine actions to ensure proper contract
administration, Control variations to the contracts. Maintain proper relationship
with suppliers within the code of ethics to ensure delivery of goods/services.
Monitor contract compliance by determining whether product/services are
delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, conditions, quality and price
according to the contract, Confirm contracts invoices. Monitor suppliers’
performance according to the contract and service level agreement assess
performance management reports from Project Managers, Organise
performance management meetings with contracted service providers.
Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery and manage
performance of the supervisees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AT Matseke Tel No: (018) 386 5268
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-15@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/98 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT (SCM) REF NO:
2026/195
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management/Logistics/Procurement or related
qualification. Appropriate working experience Supply Chain Management
experience at supervisory level. Thorough knowledge and understanding of
government procurement systems and relevant legislation related to Supply
Chain Management; management of databases; Public Finance Management
Act; built environment industry; monitoring and evaluation theory and
methodology; monitoring and evaluation systems. Good verbal and written
communication skills; basic numeracy; advanced interpersonal and diplomacy
skills; problem solving skills; decision making skills; ability to work under
stressful situations; ability to communicate at all levels; ability to work
independently. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements. A valid Driver’s license.
85
DUTIES : Coordinate (synergise), review, research, analyse and plan the procurement
needs of the department (Regional Office): Research the relevant identified
needs in line with the Supply Chain Strategy. Analyze requirements, undertake
research, determine and develop proposals for implementation. Ensure
compliance with quality requirements. Ensure that SCM prescripts, processes
are complied with in line with the procurement strategy. Determine whether
specifications should contain any special conditions. Coordinate, review,
collect and collate information for the annual procurement plan: Collect
information from the relevant role players according to the prescribed template.
Check (engage) and analyse the information. Confirm availability of budget.
Check alignment against strategic and other objectives. Coordinate Bid
Specification Committees. Ensure full administration of Bid Specification
Committee. Consolidate into procurement plan and table for approval by the
accounting officer. Supervise and compile tender/quotation specifications as
required: Determine whether a specification for the relevant commodity exists,
if not oversee the collection and collation of information and the compilation of
specifications/terms of reference. Compile and publish request for proposals
as required. Develop, implement and maintain the supplier’s database.
Perform general quality assurance of information in the supplier database
(check and verify supporting documents). General supervision of subordinate
employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Maposa, Tel No: (015) 293 8035
APPLICATIONS : For Polokwane: email to: RecruitPLK26-10@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 2026/196
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National Diploma
in Auditing/Accounting. Must possess Internal Audit Technician (IAT).
Possession of the Professional Internal Auditor (PIA) qualification and studying
towards a relevant certification (CIA) or (CISA) will be an added advantage.
Relevant 3 years’ experience as a senior internal auditor/auditor. Knowledge
of Global Internal Audit Standards, National Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Institute of Internal Auditors Code of Ethics, Phases
of internal audit process, Departmental business systems and processes,
Departmental policies and procedures, Best practices regarding systems of
risk management, internal control and governance processes, accounting
standards. Proficient computer literacy, numeracy, advanced communication
(verbal and written), language and linguistic skills, project management. Report
writing, organization and co-ordination, interpersonal skills, negotiation skills,
analytical thinking, interviewing skills, ability to assess and analyze information
and make relevant findings, problem solving skills, ability to influence others,
conflict management, integrity, tenacity, dedication, honesty, objectivity,
diligence, avoid conflict of interests in performing duties. Exercise prudence
with confidential information, innovation, adaptability and creative. Solution
orientated ability to design ideas without direction. Ability to work under
stressful situations and against deadlines. Must be prepared to travel and be
expected to work overtime. Must be prepared to disclose impairments to their
independence or objectivity. Security clearance. Registration with the Institute
for Internal Auditors. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist the Deputy Director during the strategic planning process and with the
planning of audit activities. Develop audit objectives that address the risks
controls and governance processes associated with the activities under review;
Develop audit procedures that achieve the engagement objectives; set both
the scope and degree of testing required to achieve the assignment objectives
in each phase; submit audit program for the review of the Deputy Director prior
to the commencement of audit assignments; Plan and monitor projects within
set timeframes, and individuals responsible for the assignment to ensure that
objectives are achieved, quality is assured and staff is developed; Ensure that
conclusions and audit results are based on appropriate analysis and
evaluation; attend exit conference on completion of audit assignment and
present audit results. Implement a Quality Assurance and Improvement
Program in the Internal Audit to ensure compliance to the Global Internal Audit
Standards and Departmental Policies and Procedures. Expected to conduct
regular audits on key financial controls; compliance audits; performance
information audits (predetermined objectives) and performance audits as
86
identified.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NPT Hlengwa Tel No: (047) 502 7010
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-19@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY PAYMENTS REF NO: 2026/197
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National Diploma
in Finance or related qualification. Relevant years of experience and
supervisory experience in the field. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge of the
property industry, Property management processes and systems, Procurement
and tender regulations, Public finance management act, Treasury Regulations,
Financial delegations and applicable financial management legislation. Report
writing and good communication skills, verbal and written. Organising and
problem-solving abilities. Good financial, interpersonal, analytical and
budgeting skills. Ability to manage stakeholders’ i.e. municipalities, client’s
department, landlords and private individuals. Ability to work under pressure.
Computer literacy. Ability to manage and upskill the team.
DUTIES : Maintain property payments policies and strategies. Participate in the
development and review of property payments policies and strategies in line
with applicable prescripts. Ensure compliance with related prescripts
delegations and procedures. Administrate property payments and revenues.
Manage property revenues. Ensure effectiveness of the Property Asset
Register. Authorise creditors payments, creditors and customer master file.
Quality assures invoices processed for account payments. Ensure that all
invoices and required supporting documents are submitted accordingly.
Authorise payments within the approved delegation of authority. Monitor the
property expenditure management system. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective service delivery. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Matlala Tel No: (012) 406 2194
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-16@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/101 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/198
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management / Public Administration or related
qualification. Relevant experience in Supply Chain field. Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act; Office administration; Procurement and provisioning
policies and procedures. Financial administration processes and LOGIS and
BAS systems. Contractual policies and procedures. Effective communication
skills; technical report writing skills. Numeracy. Computer literacy. Interpersonal
relations; general office administrative and organizational skills. Understanding
of Contract management; SCM processes and systems. A valid drivers’
license. Prepared to travel; willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with
office requirements.
DUTIES : Provide admin support in the management of changes on the original
agreement and ensure proper contract administration. Confirm contract terms
are understood by relevant stakeholders. Administer variations to the
contracts. Assess applications for price adjustment and invoke penalty clauses.
Assess applications for variations, amendments and cancelations and develop
proposals for approval. Implement corrective action whenever significant or
unacceptable deviations against the original agreement occurs. Escalate all
contract disputes to the management and legal offices. Conduct SCM
compliance checking of contracts that have been awarded. Confirm if the
contract has been signed and recorded in accordance with the bid adjudication
resolution. Verify if contracts are in compliance with relevant procedures.
Establish and maintain stakeholder and supplier relationships to identify and
minimise risk Generate reports on the current status of existing agreements.
Analyse and report on specific risks associated with contracts. Ensure that
sufficient documentation is obtained for all contracts entered into. Provide
administration support to contract Management. Ensure that all contracts are
accurately recorded on the contract register. Maintain the contract register for
87
tenders through updating register with all contract changes. Ensure that project
managers send in copies of relevant documents upon expiry of contracts.
Notify stakeholders about expiring contracts. Gather relevant information
required by the stakeholder. Ensure good record and safe keeping of contract
documents for easy access. Arrange logistics for relevant meetings and take
minutes of the minutes. Communicate SCM circulars with relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LP Khumalo Tel No: (012) 310 5168
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-39@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/102 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: TRAVEL AND SUBSISTENCE REF
NO: 2026/199
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma Supply Chain Management or related qualification with relevant years
of experience in S&T. supervisory experience will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of National Treasury Travel Guideline, DPSA related legislation,
including the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations. Good
verbal and written communication skills for the drafting of quality
documentation. The ability to manage confidential information, advanced
interpersonal and diplomacy skills, problem solving skills, decision-making
skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Support the administration and smooth functioning of the S&T unit and related
processes and systems, Receive, record and verify advances and claims from
officials for Domestic and international trips, Capture and maintain registers,
Coordinate and collate weekly and monthly statistics. Prepare monthly,
quarterly, annual financial inputs relating to S&T. Provide documents and
information to officials. Draft circulars for approval, Prepare Monthly S&T
expenditure report, ensure that the suspense account is cleared within 30 days.
Administer submissions for approval, General admin support to Regional
Offices, Collate data; prepare reports and presentations for management use,
Coordinate Internal training sessions, steer the Logistics response process and
provide analysis of audit queries, management responses. Assist with the
preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial inputs. Manage HR
resources Perform any other assigned duties in relation to the implementation
of the Supply Chain Management processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NL Kunene Tel No: (012) 406 1444
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-36@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/103 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PROVISIONING
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2026/200A
Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/200B
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management / Public Admin or related qualification,
relevant experience in the field of Logistics or Supply Chain Management.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, Computer Literacy and a
Driver’s License are compulsory. Knowledge: Office Administration; Logistics
and Provisioning Policies as well as Procedures; Financial Systems (SAGE,
LOGIS and BAS); Public Finance Management Act; Financial Administration;
Supply Chain Management; PPPFA. Skills: Planning and Organizing; Report
Writing, Problem Solving; Communication Skills; Interpersonal Skills;
Resource Management; Personal Attributes: Ability to handle confidential
information; Analytical thinking; Resourceful; People orientated; hardworking;
Trustworthy; Self-motivated; Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : The effective administration support of the of LOGIS system and orders unit:
Receive requests from end users. Ensure that the request for goods and
services received from line function is compliant before processing the order.
Ensure processing of requisitions. Place and verify orders for goods. Control
turnaround time of requisition and orders. Monitor and follow up on outstanding
orders. Inform users and suppliers regarding the cancellation of orders. Ensure
that all procurement practices are in accordance with policies and circulars.
Ensure that petty cash is issued and recorded correctly and that replenishment
of petty cash is finalised. Compiling of monthly reconciliation report for
88
suppliers. Ensure administration and maintaining user profiles on LOGIS and
user support. Ensure the usage of the LOGIS system is reviewed. Ensure
monthly LOGIS system reports are compiled and submitted on time. Ensure
that the LOGIS users are informed of release notes. Ensure that the chief user
list is updated. Preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial inputs.
The effective and efficient processing of payments: Receive invoices from
different units and attach to the orders. Verify the compliance of invoices and
ensure their certification. Ensure that invoices are attached to the correct
orders. Ensure invoices are captured correctly. Verification of Sundry
payments. Ensure that invoices are finalized within 30 days; Receive invoices
on the Reapatala invoices tracking system. Submit payment statistics. Check
correctness of invoices submitted for payment. Ensure that invoices are
certified and captured correctly. Compile. LOGIS commitment reports.
Preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial inputs. The effective and
efficient administration of cellular phones: Ensure that all placement of cell
phone orders are in accordance with the agreed and signed packages by
National Treasury RT 15 Contract. Handle cellular phone and 3G card queries
Identify the cellular phones and Data exceeding and inform the officials via e-
mails to settle their accounts. Oversee recordkeeping of returned handsets
Monitor all cellular and 3G contracts’ expiry dates either to upgrade or cancel
the contracts. Recording and issuing cellular phones. Maintain and update the
cellular phone asset register. Manage the usage and expenditure of cellular
phones through the Spend Manager tool. Verify the compliance of invoices and
ensure certification. Assist with the preparation of monthly, quarterly and
annual financial inputs. Ensure the monthly reconciliation reports are done.
Supervise employees to ensure an effective delivery service: General
supervision of employees. Ensure compliance with disciplinary and grievance
code and handle administrative issues regarding HR matters. Allocate duties
and perform quality control on the work delivered by subordinates. Advice and
lead subordinates regarding all aspects of the work. Manage performance of
staff and ensure assessments are made. Ensure that all subordinates are
trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr. Vincent Masinge Tel No: (012) 492 2078
Pretoria Regional Office: Mr. M Raphesu Tel No: (012) 310 5161
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-37@dpw.gov.za
For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-40@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/104 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (TENDER
ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/201A
Gqeberha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/201B
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/201C
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management / Purchasing Management / Public
Administration / Procurement or related qualification. Relevant years of work
experience in Procurement / Supply Chain Management. Experience in
Construction or Infrastructure Procurement will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Framework, procurement related
legislation and regulations, including the Public Finance Management Act,
Code of Conduct for Supply Chain Management Practitioners, Treasury
Regulations and Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, CIDB Act,
CIDB Regulations and CIDB Practice Notes and Guides. Understanding
government procurement systems and processes within the built environment
is essential. Good verbal and written communication skills, the ability to
manage confidential information, advanced interpersonal and negotiation
skills, problem solving skills, decision making skills and computer literacy are
critical competency areas. The ability to work and deliver under pressure and
within tight time frames is essential.
DUTIES : Prepare tender documentation for advertising. Assist in compiling bid
documents in line with standard bid document requirement. Ensure that the
tender documentation is in line with applicable SCM prescripts and processes.
Review the scope of the terms of reference and integrate the compliance
requirements into the tender documentation as required. Distribute the draft
tender advert template to the line manager for verification. Submit advert for
89
placement in the tender bulletin and website for the required time period.
Monitor validities of closed tenders. Provide admin support in the coordination
and execution of the bidding process. Attend bid specification committee as a
member and ensure that SCM prescripts and processes are complied with.
Render advice during the tender/bid briefing sessions. Prepare and maintain
register for bidders. Assist in opening of bid documents and checking the
responsiveness and non-responsiveness of documents. Do scoring of all
responsive bids. Validate original tax clearance certificate with SARS Call
centre. Checking the prohibition status of the recommended Company and its
Directors with NT. Check Company’s Status on CIPRO website (trading status
and ownership). Render secretariat services to the Bid Committee. Arrange bid
committee meetings (bid adjudication/evaluation/sub-bid). Organise logistics
and prepare all the relevant documentation for the bid committee meetings
(including attendance register, declaration of interest and signature
documents). Record and compile meeting minutes. Advise and guide the
specification and evaluations committees. Receive approved tenders from the
Bid Committee. Prepare scoring model/tender recommendation. Prepare
evaluation reports. Attend to queries on tender administration phase. Receive
and analyse all submissions to SCM committees. Communicate queries on
submissions discussed by RBAC. Distribute supported submissions to NBAC,
CFO and the DG. Distribute adjudicated submissions to relevant units. Provide
general administrative related functions. Maintain good record keeping of all
minutes, approved submissions and other relevant documentation.
Communicate SCM circulars with relevant stakeholders. Prepare and maintain
register for bidders. Provide information on audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Pretoria Regional Office: Mr. M Raphesu Tel No: (012) 310 5161
Cape Town Regional Office Mrs M. Andrews Tel No: (021) 402 2374
Port Elizabeth Regional Office: Mr G Stroebel Tel No: (041) 408 2182
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-41@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-51@dpw.gov.za
For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-20@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/105 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office Ref No: 2026/202A (X1 Post)
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/202B
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Internal Auditing/Accounting. A relevant year of working experience
in auditing. Registration with the Institute for Internal Auditors. Security
clearance. Knowledge of IAA Charter. IAA Methodology. IAA Standards.
Standards for Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. Treasury Regulations.
Public Finance Management Act. Institute of Internal Auditors Code of Ethics.
Possession of an Internal Audit technician (IAT) and or Professional Internal
Audit Technician (PIAT) qualification will be an added advantage. Advanced
Audit Process & associated phases Departmental business systems and
processes. Departmental policies and procedures. Accounting standards.
Team-mate Audit Software. Skills: Advanced communication (verbal and
written). Advanced Report writing. Organisation and co-ordination.
Interpersonal skills. Negotiation. Analytical thinking. Ability to assess and
analyse information and make relevant findings. Computer literate. Be able and
prepared to work under pressure. Be a team player. Be creative and be able to
pay attention to details. Ability to work within specific timeframe.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in the development Internal Audit Strategic Plans. Identify and
analyse critical risks from the Department’s Risk Management plan that
requires Internal Audit Activity focus and the controls put in place to mitigate
them. Establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA
consistent with the organisation’s goals. Develop cyclical based audit plan.
Determine resources requirements of the Internal Audit Activity. Align the
operational plan to the overall objectives of the organisation. Provide inputs in
the development of Internal Audit Operational plan. Determine focus areas for
IA activities. Determine IA scope in relation to the scheduled assignments.
Allocate resources to planned audit assignments. Establish the timing of
performance of the audit assignments. Determine the reporting requirements
and deadlines. Conduct the Internal Audit Activity. Perform activities of the IAA
at each level of operation to ensure that they are consistently performed in
accordance with the IIA’s standards. Conduct reviews as per approved annual
90
plan and/or approved ad hoc requests. Identify process weaknesses and
provide appropriate recommendations for improvement. Monitor the
implementation of recommendations by management. Report on the internal
audit Activity’s engagement findings and conclusions. Provide Secretarial
services to the audit and Risk Management. Committee of the Department.
Render administrative support services. Administer the co-sourcing activities
within the Directorate. Ensure the effective flow of information and documents
to and from the office. Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the office
in line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and
compiles reports, e.g. progress reports, monthly reports and management
reports. Responds to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Collect, analyse and collate information requested by superiors.
Ensure that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Manage the leave
register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handle the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities for the
manager and the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Johannesburg Regional Office: Mr. E Senoamadi Tel No: (011) 713 6000
Mthatha Regional Office: Ms. A Qata Tel No: (047) 502 7078
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-14@dpw.gov.za
For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-17@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/106 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: PROJECT BUDGET ADMIN REF NO:
2026/203
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Financial Management or related qualification. Relevant work
experience in the field. Knowledge: Works Control System (WCS), Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, financial management and administration, state budgetary
systems, National Department of Treasury regulations, guidelines and
directives. Departments’ Reconciliation processes, understanding of
Governments financial delegations, management of governments chart of
accounts, Government Budget systems and procedures, Government financial
systems, supply chain management, financial prescripts (GAAP and GRAP).
Skills: Good verbal and written communication skills, basic numeracy,
advanced interpersonal and diplomacy skills, problem solving skills, decision-
making skills, statistical skills. Personal Attributes: Innovative, creative,
resourceful, trustworthy, hardworking, self-motivated, ability to work under
stressful situations, ability to communicate at all levels, people orientated,
analytical thinking, ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide support with the compilation and submission of budget inputs. Prepare
template for budget inputs and distribute to executing units, analyse and
consolidate budget inputs, draft budget submission for approval of the
allocations, compile authorisation documents and update the Work Control
System (WCS), determine the availability of funds within the respective
allocations, liaise with UDM/Clients for requesting of additional funds. Analyse
and monitor expenditure levels, monitor cash flow and expenditure, prepare
monthly expenditure report, assist with the consolidation of monthly
expenditure reports for the administration budget of all directorates within
UDM, liaise with the Directorate, Financial Accounting with regard to the
availability of funding, assist in the compilation and distribution of expenditure
reports to clients departments. Provide administrative to support effective
functioning of the sub-unit, assist with compiling schedules and invoices,
prepare administration reports as required. Ensure continuous adherence to
developed and approved internal controls, contribute towards the preparation
of financial managements for audit purposes, and provide administrative
support with regard to the audit process and resolution of audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Mongwenyana Tel No: (012) 406 1816
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-15@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/107 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (REVENUE
AND DEBT SERVICES) REF NO: 2026/204
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
91
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Management Accounting / Financial Management or related
qualification. Minimum relevant years of experience in a field. The following will
serve as recommendation; Knowledge of PFMA and treasury regulations,
Knowledge of transversal systems: PMIS, WCS, BAS, SAGE and be computer
literate. Be able and prepared to work under pressure. Be a team player. Be
creative and be able to pay attention to details. Ability to work within specific
timeframe.
DUTIES : Monitor the allocation and reconciliation of payments. Validate and verify
invoices and receipts. Verify accounts receivable in terms of Service Level
Agreements. Administer budget allocation schedules. Allocation of monies
received from client departments on BAS, SAGE. Apply payments to any past
due accounts owed and issue a new bill. Reconcile the client department’s
accounts. Follow up on claims and issue invoices in respect of identified new
bill. Ensure effective administration of accounts. Perform reconciliation of
account receivable and payable. Report on accounts paid within the due date.
Report on late payments, unpaid accounts and outstanding invoices and
provide motivation. Ensure that supplier information is updated accordingly.
Create weekly & monthly revenue report. Compile schedules, invoices and
financial statements. Ensure effective control and safekeeping of records and
documentation related to payments (invoices and receipts). Administrate and
institute actions regarding outstanding monies due to the Department. Follow
up with debtors and prepare Queries. Liaise with state law advisors, legal and
tracing agents for the institution of legal actions against debtors for monies
outstanding. Arrange for interest- or non-interest-bearing payments by staff (in
or out of service). Make recommendations to the Legal Department, Head:
Finance Office and Financial Accounting and Budgets with regard to the writing
off of debts. Provide administrative and supervisory services to support
effective functioning of the sub-directorate. Supervise the handling of logistical
arrangement in the sub-directorate. Administer the flow of information in and
out of the office. Assist with compiling schedules, invoices and financial
statements. Supervise subordinates and ensure performance management
and development. Prepare administration reports as required. Supervise
continuous adherence to developed and approved internal controls. Attend to
other related duties as delegated by management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Marakalala Tel No: (011) 713 6139
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-16@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/108 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRAVEL AND TRANSPORT
LOGISTICAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: 2026/205
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Supply Chain
Management / Logistics management or related qualification. relevant work
experience in transport/fleet management environment. Effective
communication, Planning and Organizing Skill, Budgeting Analysis, Report
Writing Basic Numeracy, must be computer literate, Analytical thinking,
Interpersonal relations, Client liaison, General Office Administrative and
Organizing Skill. Knowledge in Supply Chain Management policy, Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Debt Policy, Policy
regulating the Subsidized Scheme by NDOT. Financial and budget
administration processes and system. Good communication Skill (verbal and
writing) and interpersonal skills, a valid driver’s license, willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Ability to work under pressure
and independently.
DUTIES : Ensure effective fleet Management service by ensuring procurement,
registering and licensing of fleet, keep a detailed history for every vehicles in
fleet, Maintained detailed record of vehicle servicing and inspection, ensure
strict servicing and maintenance times to minimize down time and maintain
schedule. Ensure regular vehicle maintenance to ensure operation efficiency
and optimal utilization. compile monthly utilization report of fleet vehicles.
Processing subsidized vehicle scheme to verify authenticity, accuracy and
correctness of applications for subsidized vehicle, Present applications to the
committee, notify the applicants with regard to their application status, Manage,
verify and process the logbooks, Ensure compliance with the 70/30% threshold
regarding the utilization of the subsidized vehicle. Prepare payments for access
92
payments payable to subsidized vehicles users for accident claims. Certify the
process of transport related payments claims on fleet, rental and subsidized
vehicles. (Traffic admin fees/vehicle damage) to ensure that a file on occurred
damages and losses cases is open, verify that all required documents are on
the file, Refer a cases to Legal Services for further investigations. Inform the
driver about the outcomes. Effective payment on suspense account or arrange
recoveries from guilty parties based on instructions received from Legal
Services/state attorneys. Refer the matter to HR payroll for PERSAL deduction,
manage suspense account. Inform finance about any payment made. Prepare
write off submission. Ensure the payment of transport related expenditure
within 30 days. Ensure timeous hotel and flight reservation. Ensure
authorization for trips. Address any related accommodation problems. Maintain
relevant forms and register. Verify all subsistence and travel claims. Process
all payments of travel agents. General supervision of employees. Allocate
duties and perform quality control on the work delivered by supervisees. Advice
and lead supervisees with regarding to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance and conduct discipline supervisees. Ensure all supervisees are
trained and developed to be able to deliver standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TE Matiso Tel No: (041) 408 2141
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-21@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/109 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A: ELECTRICAL: WORKSHOP REF NO:
2026/206
SALARY : R397 329 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years post qualification
experience as an Artisan. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Project
management. Technical design and analysis. Computer-aided technical
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills. Operating
workshop equipment OHSA. Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Teamwork. Creativity. Change management. Financial management.
DUTIES : Design and production of objects- Supervise and produce designs according
to client specification and within limits of production capability; Produce objects
with material and equipment according to job specification and recognized
standards. Ensure effective and efficient maintenance of technical faults-
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facilities related to electrical according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Update register of maintained and
repaired faults. Obtain quotations and purchase (order) required equipment
and materials. Compile and submit reports as required. Supervise employees
to ensure an effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-42@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/110 : ADMINSTRATIVE OFFICER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/207
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management /Procurement/Public Administration or
related. Relevant years of experience in Supply Chain Management I Demand
Management. Computer literacy, Good verbal and Communication skills,
Report writing, knowledge of government supply chain management policies
and procedures, Knowledge on Regulations, PPPFA, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and BBBEE Acts, Monitoring, Evaluation theory, and systems.
DUTIES : Provide administration support with the Demand Management unit, Collect and
consolidate information related to procurement plan, Provide support in the
drafting of specifications/ terms of references and procurement strategies.
Provide secretariat support into relevant committees, general administration
and Supervision, Ensure preparation of quality reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr EZ Ndlovu Tel No: (031) 314 7044
APPLICATIONS : For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-04@dpw.gov.za
93
POST 16/111 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT (SCM)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/208A
Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/208B
Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2026/208C
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management or in the relevant field. Extensive
relevant years of experience in asset management. Sound knowledge and
understanding of pertinent policies relating to Movable Asset Management.
National Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management, PFMA, PPPFA Act
and Regulations, and Code of Conduct. Knowledge: Thorough knowledge and
understanding of Standard Charts of Accounts (SCOA) and applicable financial
business systems (LOGIS and BAS). Skills: Excellent verbal and written
communication skills, problem solving, analytical skills and computer literacy.
An ability to handle confidential information. A valid driver’s license. Personal
Attributes: Clientele/customer relations skills, good interpersonal skills;
decision making skills; presentation skills (including report writing), hard-
working and highly motivated. Ability to work effectively and efficiently under
pressure. Willing to adapt to work schedule in accordance with directorate’s
requirements. Willing to work for long hours.
DUTIES : Barcode new assets and update on LOGIS system. Track and authorize
movements of movable assets and make sure that it is captured on LOGIS.
Conduct the quarterly and annual verification of movable assets and other
satellite offices. Maintenance and updating of the movable Assets Register on
LOGIS. Manage disposals of assets and keep record of redundant,
unserviceable and obsolete assets. Manage the repairs process of movable
assets. Coordinate inputs for all audit queries within specified time frames.
Conduct monthly asset register audit and correct all discrepancies within
specified time frame. Interact with Asset Controllers with regards to asset
management. Check and verify request forms if SCOA allocations and ICN’s
are correct when procuring assets. Perform monthly reconciliation of assets
between BAS and LOGIS. Compile a reconciled Annual Financial Statement
for Movable Asset Management.
ENQUIRIES : Cape Town Regional Office: Ms. N Poswa Tel No: (021) 402 2198
Durban Regional Office: Mr. EZ Ndlovu Tel No: (031) 3147044
Pretoria Regional Office: Ms. E Matinyane Tel No: (012) 492 3041
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-52@dpw.gov.za
For Durban or email to: RecruitDBN26-05@dpw.gov.za
For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-43@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/112 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROVISIONING
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/209A
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/209B
Gqeberha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/209C
Johannesburg Regional Office Ref No: 2026/209D
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National Diploma
in Supply Chain Management/ Public Administration or Logistics. Relevant
years of experience in Provisioning and Logistics management. Knowledge of
LOGIS, BAS. Knowledge of Sage, Archibus and Reapatala system would be
an added advantage; Knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Thorough knowledge and understanding of government procurement systems
and relevant legislation; Skills: Good verbal and written communication skills;
basic numeracy; statistical skills. Ability to work under pressure; ability to
communicate at all levels; ability to work independently. Willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide support to the units with regards to orders for goods and services.
Verify the requests for goods and services received from the units to confirm
compliance. Generate the order numbers and issue to the supplier and the unit.
Follow-up on outstanding orders. Inform users and suppliers regarding the
cancellation of orders. Provide support in the administration of the LOGIS
system. Assist with the compilation of monthly reconciliation report for
suppliers. Compile LOGIS system reports. Inform LOGIS users of release
notes. Assist with the preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial
statements inputs. Render admin support in the processing of payments.
94
Receive invoices from different units and attach to the orders. Verify the
compliance of invoices. Ensure that invoices are attached to the correct orders.
Ensure invoices are captured correctly. Verify the sundry payments. Ensure
that invoices are finalised within 30 days. Compile payments statistics. Render
administration support in the processes of mobile devices allocations. Receive
applications for mobile devices and data and verify correctness. Submit
applications for approval by the delegated authority. Prepare documentation
for allocation of mobile devices. Issue mobile devices and ensure
recordkeeping of documentation. Provide general administration and
supervisory functions. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work
delivered by subordinates. Render general supervision of subordinates.
Monitor performance of subordinates and performance appraisals.
ENQUIRIES : Pretoria Regional Office: Ms. Q Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
Cape Town Regional Office: Mr. P Molapo Tel No: (021) 402 2083
Port Elizabeth Regional Office: Mr. G Stroebel Tel No: (041) 408 2182
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-44@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-53@dpw.gov.za
For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-22@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/113 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (ACCOUNTS PAYABLE)
(AP) REF NO: 2026/210
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National Diploma
in Accounting, Financial Management and/or equivalent qualifications with
relevant years of working experience in payments environment. Well
conversant with PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Public Service Regulations.
Developed computer literacy with a strong emphasis on MS Excel and
PowerPoint. Good and sound analytical skills with good communication skills
(written and verbal). Knowledge of GRAP Accounting, creditors’ management
is essential. Knowledge of ERP systems will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Capture and process fully supported payments
on SAGE, Verify and initiate Works Control Systems (WCS) payments and
daily runs. Reconciliation of individual creditor’s payments. Re-issue, recall and
cancel payments on SAGE, where applicable. Perform and prepare creditors
control accounts (general ledger). Ensure payments are adequately supported
(e.g. order numbers, invoices, etc.). Prepare and process related journals and
Safekeeping and monitoring of documents in the batch room. Serve as a back-
up for petty cash office and related activities. Issue petty cash advances to
delegated officials. Follow up on long outstanding invoices. Monthly reporting
to the National Treasury on 30 days payment report. Perform and prepare daily
petty cash reconciliations. Perform replenishment on a regular basis. Resolve
queries from regions (e.g. re-issues, re submissions, recalls and cancellations).
Issue of receipts to suppliers and officials. Complete and prepare daily bank
deposit slips. Daily banking of cash receipts. Safeguarding of receipt book.
Processing of receipts to SAGE. Resolution of queries from suppliers (e.g. lost
receipts). Submit AP related inputs for financial statement consolidation.
Prepare year end journals correctly classified in line with GRAP.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Maningi Tel No: (012) 406-1147
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-38@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/114 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (EXPENDITURE) REF
NO: 2026/211
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Financial Accounting / Financial Management or related
qualification. Appropriate relevant years of work experience. Knowledge in
Public Finance Management Act, National Department of Treasury regulations,
guidelines and directives as well as Departments` Reconciliation processes.
Knowledge of transversal systems: PMIS, WCS, BAS, SAGE among others.
Be able and prepared to work under pressure. Be a team player. Be creative
and be able to pay attention to details.
DUTIES : To process payments on various systems (SAGE, PMIS, WCS, & BAS). To
request reports, compile and capture journals and clearing of suspense
95
accounts. Monitoring of 30 days payment by ensuring data cleansing and
updating invoice tracking system. Administer the flow of information in and out
of the office. Assist with compiling various schedules for financial statements
and other reporting. Ensure the attendance of queries, including audit queries.
Attend to other related duties as delegated by management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Marakalala Tel No: (011) 713 6139
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-17@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/115 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (PAYROLL) REF NO:
2026/212
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Financial Management or related. A minimum of relevant years of
work experience. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act, National
Department of Treasury regulations, guidelines and directives, Departments`
Reconciliation processes, Understanding of Governments financial
delegations, Management of governments departments chart of accounts,
Government Budget systems and procedures, Government Financial Systems,
Supply Chain Management & Financial prescripts (GAAP and GRAP). Skills:
good verbal and written communication skills, basic numeracy, advanced
interpersonal and diplomacy skills, problem solving skills, decision making
skills, numeracy, statistical skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate payroll transactions: Consolidate financial systems for accurate
salary payments. Reconcile all systems related to salary payments, PERSAL,
PERSAP and interfacing with BAS. Process payment of staff salaries through
transfers to banks and other financial institutions, Capture payroll transactions
on the accounting system. Verify information for payroll certification, Ensure
that the relevant institution is eligible for a transfer payment/subsidy and that
they comply with the relevant financial legislative requirements. Process the
reimbursement transactions: Process subsistence and travel (S&T) claims.
Check payment and validate allocations. Check payment enquiries to ensure
successful acceptance on BAS. Capture and file S&T claims. Process salary
claims transactions: Verify and authorise salary related payments made on
BAS. Capture and verify the Departmental claims. Ensure that salaries paid to
transferred officials are claimed. Authorise the Departmental salary claims.
Administer measures for improving audit outcomes and risk management
activities-: Assist with the preparation of annual financial statements for audit
purposes. Assist with the preparation of quarterly and interim financial
statements required by management of the relevant Funds. Prepare
administration reports as required. Attend to other related duties as delegated
by management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Marakalala Tel No: (012) 406 1816
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-18@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/116 : ADMIN OFFICER: TRANSPORT (FLEET & SUBSIDIZED VEHICLES)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2026/213A
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/213B
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management /Logistics or related qualification.
Relevant years of experience in Fleet, Subsidized Vehicles, Ministerial Vehicles
& Transport Management. Must be in possession of a valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and PPP contracts,
Transport related policies, Car scheme for political office bearers, Senior
Manager Scheme, Middle Management Scheme and financial administration
process and system. Computer literacy, Administration Skills, Organizational
skills, Financial and reconciliation skills. Good communication (verbal and
writing) skills and interpersonal skills, willing to adapt to work schedule in
accordance with office requirements. Ability to perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage Departmental drivers. Administer fleet vehicle utilization and ensure
that the all trips are logged daily on the trip logging system. Conduct daily
vehicle inspections. Manage Head Office fleet vehicles, costing and reports of
fleet services, inspections of fleet vehicles. Verify transport related invoices
96
from service providers for correctness and compliance to policies and
prescripts. Ensure that invoices are paid within 30 days of receipt. Facilitate
payments on the BAS/SAGE system for service providers. Perform monthly
account reconciliation. Reconciliation of logbooks. Update the Reapatala
Invoice Tracking System. Oversee the provision of short and long term rental
vehicles. Initiate the procurement of ministerial vehicles as per the SCM
processes; licensing and registration and assist with all administration of the
ministerial vehicles. Provide and maintain fleet vehicles for official purposes,
the incumbent will be responsible to manage the driver services and conduct
performance assessments. Liaise with Service providers and NDOT on
transport related issues. Administer traffic fines for the Department. Process
new applications for subsidized vehicles to ensure that the qualification criteria
are adhered to. Ensure that official and private kilometers are verified
according to policy requirements and Officials are reimbursed on time. Must be
willing to work overtime.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms E Marren Tel No: (012) 406 1441
Mthatha Regional Office: Ms T Bomela Tel No: (047) 502 7046
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-39@dpw.gov.za
For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-18@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/117 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SCM ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/214A (X4 Posts)
Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2026/214B
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management/ Procurement/ Public Administration or
Public Management/ Purchasing Management. Relevant working experience
in Supply Chain environment within Acquisition Management. Valid Driver’s
Licence. Knowledge of Supply Chain policies and procedures, Treasury
Regulation Act, Broad Based Black Economy Empowerment Act, Preferential
Procurement Policy Frame Act, Public Finance Management Act. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills and must be able to liaise at
operational and strategic levels. Good analytical, planning, organizing, conflict
resolution and financial management skills. Computer skills e.g. Microsoft
Word, Microsoft Excel, Power-Point and Microsoft Access. Well prepared to
work under-pressure and irregular hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the procurement of goods and services through formal tender
process. Provide a Secretarial support function to Bid-Committees. Provide
administrative duties during the tender/bid briefing sessions. Assist with the
tender compilation of bid documents and confirm if it is in line with applicable
SCM prescripts and processes. Provide assistance in the review of the scope
of the Terms of Reference (TOR). Submit the draft tender advert template for
verification. Submit advert for placement in the tender bulletin and website for
the required time period. Assist with the monitoring of validity period of closed
tenders. Assist in the co-ordination and execution of the bidding process-:
Arrange and attend bid specification committee. Prepare register for bidders.
Check the compliance with SCM prescripts and processes. Respond to specific
queries during the tender/bid briefing sessions. Open bid documents and check
the responsiveness and non-responsiveness of documents. Prepare scoring
model/tender recommendation and evaluation reports. Preparation/ screening
of recommendation for Adjudication. Communicate queries on submissions
discussed by Regional bid Adjudication committee. Provide feedback of all
adjudicated submissions to relevant Line Functions. Maintain a good record
keeping of all minutes, approved submissions and other relevant
documentation. Perform quality check/control on all submissions by SCM
Administrative Assistant. Provide information on audit queries. Compile letters
for the approval of the delegated authority to communicate of the outcome of
the BAC or with successful and unsuccessful bidders in line with the
established policy. Attend to all queries related to Acquisition Management.
Supervision and monitoring of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Cape Town Regional Office: Mr. D Magida Tel No: (021) 402 2071
Durban Regional Office: Mr EZ Ndlovu Tel No: (031) 314 7044
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-54@dpw.gov.za
For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-06@dpw.gov.za
97
POST 16/118 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRAVEL SERVICES REF NO: 2026/215
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics or related qualification.
Appropriate relevant experience within the field. Valid Driver’s licence will be
an added advantage. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements. Knowledge: Logistics and Provisioning Policies and Procedures,
Treasury Regulations Debt Policies, Policy regulating the Subsidised Scheme
by NDOT, Policies regulating the Government vehicles by NDOT, Supply Chain
Management, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Financial and budget
administration processes and systems, General office administrative and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Receive, verify PW21s forms and stamp the date. Verify budget allocation
codes for PMTE and DPW. Check compliance with all applicable systems.
Ensure that a verified PW21 receives an order and that order is not duplicated.
Update the order book and submit bookings to the travel agent. Obtain
approval for exception and deviation. Update relevant spreadsheets timeously
to assist with commitment inputs for financial statements for DPW and PMTE.
Administer the processing of invoices. Receive and check that all invoices
received from Travel Management Company (TMC). Reconcile invoices
against commitment register (order book). Capture and prepare the
spreadsheets for submitting to Registry. Ensure that all received invoices from
Registry have Reapatala number and registry stamp. Update all compliant
invoices on Reapatala system for further processing. Ensure that all rejected
invoices are sent back to TMC. Prepare Sundry payment for all correct
invoices. Facilitate payments of travel invoices. Check if the correct budget
allocation and item codes corresponds with invoice. Obtain authority for
payment of invoices. Submit certified invoices to Provisioning for further
processing. Make regular follow-ups to ensure that complaint invoices are paid
within 30 days of receipt. Coordinate and collate weekly and monthly statistics.
Provide admin assistance with monthly reconciliations. Assist with the
preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial inputs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. VG Msimango Tel No: (011) 713 6251
APPLICATIONS : For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-19@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/119 : ARTISAN: WORKSHOP: ELECTRICAL REF NO: 2026/216
SALARY : R253 341 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. A valid driver`s license. Knowledge of OHSA
Act. Knowledge: PROJECT management. Technical design and analysis
Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Technical consulting Production, process knowledge
and skills. Operating workshop equipment. OHSA. Skills: Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Design and production of objects-Supervise and product designs according to
client specification and within limits of production capability. Produce objects
with material and equipment according to job specification and recognized
standards. Ensure effective and efficient maintenance of technical faults-:
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facilities according to standards. Perform administrative and related function-:
Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Obtain quotations and
purchase (order) required equipment and materials. Compile and submit
reports as required. Render general supervision to Tradesman Aids and
Apprentices-: Supervise and guide Tradesman Aids and Apprentices on site.
Allocate daily tasks and monitor progress
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-45@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/120 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: 2026/217 (X2 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, People who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification.
No experience required. Knowledge in the following areas: Provisioning
98
Administration/ Supply Chain Management environment/ Logistics or
Facilitation of travel and accommodation arrangements; Knowledge of
electronic administration of procurement system; Knowledge of LOGIS, BAS,
SAGE, Reapatala invoice tracking and Archibus systems would be an added
advantage; wide range of office management and administration tasks.
Advanced communication, basic numeracy, interpersonal relations and
general office administrative and organizational skills. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide the following services: facilitate and
coordinate bookings for travel, accommodation or conference. Administrate
office correspondence, documents and reports. Execute various LOGIS
functions in relation to procurement of goods and services. Ensures timely
capturing of invoice payments on LOGIS, BAS or SAGE and approving of calls
on Archibus. Assist with ordering of material and equipment from suppliers;
administer documentation for requisitions and reports; submit invoices for
payment. Ability to work on applicable invoice tracking system. Updating of
commitment registers and monthly reconciliation of accounts. Assist with
provision of financial statements inputs. Perform transit duties and other related
tasks as per supervisor’s instruction.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q. Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-46@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/121 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: 2026/218
Re-advertisement, People who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum if National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification.
No experience required. Knowledge in the following areas: Provisioning
Administration/ Supply Chain Management environment/ Logistics or
Facilitation of travel and accommodation arrangements; Knowledge of
electronic administration of procurement system; Knowledge of LOGIS, BAS,
SAGE, Reapatala invoice tracking and Archibus systems would be an added
advantage; wide range of office management and administration tasks.
Advanced communication, basic numeracy, interpersonal relations and
general office administrative and organizational skills. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide the following services: facilitate and
coordinate bookings for travel, accommodation or conference. Administrate
office correspondence, documents and reports. Execute various LOGIS
functions in relation to procurement of goods and services. Ensures timely
capturing of invoice payments on LOGIS, BAS or SAGE and approving of calls
on Archibus. Assist with ordering of material and equipment from suppliers;
administer documentation for requisitions and reports; submit invoices for
payment. Ability to work on applicable invoice tracking system. Updating of
commitment registers and monthly reconciliation of accounts. Assist with
provision of financial statements inputs. Perform transit duties and other related
tasks as per supervisor’s instruction.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q. Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-47@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/122 : SCM CLERK: FINANCIAL REPORTING LOGISTICS REF NO: 2026/219
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Grade 12/Senior certificate. No experience required. Knowledge
of the Public Finance Management Act, Code of Conduct for Supply Chain
Management Practitioners, Treasury Regulations. Financial reconciliation
skills, administration skills, organization skills, communication skills (verbal and
written), good interpersonal skills, good interpersonal skills, and the ability to
work under pressure. Must be computer literate. The ability to manage
confidential information, advanced interpersonal and, problem solving skills
and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the compilation of Open Voucher Report for Monthly, Interim and
Annual Financial Statements and ensure are reported on time. Request report
from BAS and SAGE for Service Provider and Clients. Compile the Travel
Management Company invoiced Accruals. Assist with Monthly, Quarterly
LOGIS Commitment, Accruals and ensure that the supporting documentation
are received and properly filed for easy reference. Ensure that all the queries
99
related to Reporting and Compliance Office are resolved within the required
time frame. Perform any other assigned duties in relation to the implementation
of the Supply Chain Management processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NL Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406 1444
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-41@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/123 : SCM CLERK: S&T CLAIMS AND ADVANCES LOGISTICAL SERVICES REF
NO: 2026/220
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification.
No experience required. Strong financial, organizational and communication
skills (both verbal and written). Good interpersonal skills and ability to work
under pressure. Must be computer literate (MS Office) and a valid driver’s
license needed. Knowledge of Domestic and International travel and
subsistence policy.
DUTIES : The successful incumbent will serve as a direct point of contact for clients
submitting claims; be responsible for the verification of all domestic and
international S&T Claims and Advances; including contractor/consultant travel
claims in accordance with the Departmental Domestic and International travel
and subsistence policy. Monitor and follow-up outstanding international
advance allowances paid with the relevant officials. Assist in the preparation
and compilation of the inputs for financial year end S&T Accruals with
supporting documents. Record these advances and claims in Travel Register
and reconcile. Submit completed and verified claims to HR Administration for
further processing. Attend to all Subsistence and Travel enquiries (Via
telephone, e-mails and walk-ins) relevant to the Subsistence and Travel Office.
The incumbent must be prepared to work irregular and long hours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NL Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406 1444
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-42@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/124 : REGISTRY CLERK: LOGISTICAL SERVICES
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/221A (X2 Posts)
Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2026/221B
Johannesburg Regional Office Ref No: 2026/221C
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. No experience required.
Completion of the Records Management course is a prerequisite. Knowledge
of records/ documents management, a file plan, mail and courier service
procedures. Knowledge Information Act (PAIA) and National Archives and
Records Service Act (NARSA). Knowledge of electronic document and records
management system (EDRMS). Knowledge of Reapatala invoice tracking
system. Competencies needed: Planning and organizing skills.
Communication (verbal and written) Skills. Problem solving skills, Customer
care and Client orientation skills. Computer literacy. Liaison skills, Analytical
skills, Interpersonal Skills. Telephone etiquette. Good leadership Skills.
Attributes: Accurate. Confident, Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Receive mail from Post Office and internal clients. Open, stamp, sort mail and
record in the register. Receive parcels delivered by hand and record in the
register. Render courier service: package documents, place in envelopes,
address envelopes; place them in and outgoing tray and record mail in the mail
register. File and retrieve files on-site and off-site storage. Control movement
of files and access to files. Index, scanning, faxing. Photocopying. Reload
franking machine, register priority mail, receive and date stamp invoices and
forward to finance. Register supply of files to officials and maintain register of
files opened and make follow up if the file is not returned back to Registry after
the due date. Register incoming invoices on Reapatala invoice tracking
system. Issue reference no according to the approved file plan. Attend to clients
enquiries; assist in the absence of the supervisor. Perform any other
administrative tasks as requested by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Pretoria Regional Office: Ms Q. Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
Head Office Applications: Ms. Margaret Masemola Tel No: (012) 406
1785/Esaya Rex Tel No: (012) 406 1492
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-48@dpw.gov.za
100
For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-43@dpw.gov.za
For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-20@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/125 : SCM CLERK: DEMAND MANAGEMENT (SCM) REF NO: 2026/222
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Senior certificate/Grade 12. No experience required. Knowledge
and understanding of procurement-related legislations. Knowledge and
understanding of Government procurement systems and processes,
Knowledge of public Service act and Public Service regulations, Knowledge of
the Code of Conduct for supply chain management practitioners. Skills: Good
communication (verbal and written) skills, Computer literacy and numeracy.
Personal Attributes: Analytical thinking, High ethical standards, Ability to
conduct business with integrity and in a fair and reasonable manner, Ability to
work under pressure, People orientated, resourceful.
DUTIES : Request quotations from relevant suppliers as per SCM prescripts and CIDB
practice notes, Ensuring goods and services are procured in line with the
procurement and adhere to SCM policies and procedures, Prepare and draft
advert to be placed on the Government Tender Bulletin and relevant mediums,
Advertise and assist in closing the bids, Provide Secretarial support to the Bid
Committees and prepare and compile bid committee minutes, Prepare
recommendation submission for quotations to Regional Bid Adjudication
Committee; Provide admin support, Liaise and interact regarding procurement-
related processes, Bid Committee and bidding processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Stofile Tel No: (047) 502 7082
APPLICATIONS : For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-19@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : Practical exercise/ test will form part of the selection process. Position will be
targeting people with disabilities.
POST 16/126 : SCM CLERK: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/223
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. No experience required.
Computer literate in Ms Word/Excel. The candidate should be well organized
person and should be prepared to work under pressure. Basic knowledge of
PFMA and PPPFA and other relevant supply chain management legislation. A
valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Invite quotation from suppliers according to the relevant stakeholders, keeping
and maintain suppliers database, generate orders on Logis, administrate
suppliers transversal contract, administrate department cell phones contracts,
compile reports in respect of order transactions. Liaise with internal and
external clients in respect of suppliers. Ensure compliance of provisioning
policies in respect of goods and services. Assist on sport checks of e-class
accountability store.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.E. Matiso Tel No: (041) 408 2007
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-23@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/127 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: PROVISIONING & LOGISTICS
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/224A (X1 Post)
Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2026/224B (X1 Post)
Nelspruit Regional Office Ref No: 2026/224C (X1 Post)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/224D (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification
with no experience required. Computer literacy. Basic numeracy. Ability to
gather information. Problem solving skill, Ability to work with sensitive
information. Knowledge and understanding of SCM Prescripts. LOGIS.
Knowledge of CSD and Reapatala tracking system. Wide range of
management and administration task. Demonstrative computer literacy (Word
processing, spreadsheet, presentation). Trustworthy. Assertive. Ability to work
independently. Communication, report writing and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Received and capture request for goods and services from end users. Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Generate orders on LOGIS and communicate with the suppliers.
101
Follow up on outstanding orders. Compile generic repots in respect of orders
transactions. Verify received goods received from suppliers, Identify damaged
and wrong items and record them. Liaise with the supplier to return damaged
or wrong item. Capture goods on relevant register. Ensure safe keeping of
goods. Administer paperwork for distributed goods. Administrate department
cell phones contract. Capture invoices from the suppliers. Assist on sport
checks of stores. Receive and process PW21 forms. Update the order book
and submit bookings to the travel agent. Update all compliant invoices on the
system for further processing. Control stock and stationary as chief user’s
clerk. Provide logistic support for meetings. Control and maintain equipment
and inventory. Capture office requisitions.
ENQUIRIES : Port Elizabeth Regional Office: Mr. T. Matiso Tel No: (041) 408 2007
Cape Town Regional Office: Phindeka Bambela Tel No: (021) 402 2193
Nelspruit Regional: Mr. JS Ndlovu Tel No: (013) 753 6395
Mmabatho Regional: Mr. P Ndukulu Tel No: (018) 386 5270
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-24@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-55@dpw.gov.za
For Nelspruit: email to: RecruitNEL26-13@dpw.gov.za
For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-17@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/128 : SCM CLERK: MOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/225A
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/225B
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No experience required.
The ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Asset Management
Framework, Financial systems (LOGIS). Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Access and Outlook). Strong analytical, administration as well interpersonal
skills. Sound financial accounting and budgeting skills. The ability to manage
external stakeholders. Proven knowledge of LOGIS and BAS systems (Asset
Management Functions). A valid driver’s license. Willing to adopt work
schedule in accordance with Office requirements.
DUTIES : Provide clerical support services in the process of acquiring movable assets.
Participate in the physical verification of movable assets. Render administrative
assistance in the process of disposing movable assets. Manage stock
discrepancies and disposal process. Perform other asset management admin
activities. Ensure provision of movable assets to users. Liaise and interact
regarding the management of state assets. Liaise with Users regard to
updating of movable assets updated and compliant Asset Register. Liaise with
internal stakeholders regarding movable assets orders.
ENQUIRIES : Cape Town Regional Office: Ms N Poswa Tel No: (021) 402 2198
Mthatha Regional Office: Ms K Pango Tel No: (047) 502 7104
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town or email to: RecruitCPT26-56@dpw.gov.za
For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-20@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : Practical exercise/ test will form part of the selection process
POST 16/129 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/226A
Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2026/226B
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualifications.
No experience required. Strong background in Switchboard /
Telecommunication services and administrative services. Good customer
etiquette and listening skills, writing skills, and interpersonal skills. Computer
literacy (Microsoft Package). Knowledge of Reapatala (invoice tracking
system) and Archibus system (day-to-day maintenance services) Ability to
work under pressure. Knowledge of switchboard systems and logistical
services would be an added advantage. Serve internal as well as external
clients. Perform other related duties as per the requirements of the Unit.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage the switchboard by facilitating incoming
and outgoing calls. Assist technicians with the movement of telephone and fax
line (e.g. escort technicians through the building). Certifying job done by
technicians when called in for services. Open new telephone lines. Checking
102
faulty lines and telephone handsets before logging a call to telephone
companies. Ensure that all invoices for services rendered by the technicians/
telecommunication accounts and couriers are timeously paid. Arrange
telephone instruments for new employees. Capturing monthly telephone
information/ data on excel. Downloading and distributing of monthly telephone
bills to all staff. Open individual file for staff. Report faults to information
services appointed service provider. Perform any other work schedule in
accordance with various requirements of the Unit: (e.g. capturing of invoices at
Registry, assisting with Logistical and Transport/ Fleet duties).
ENQUIRIES : Cape Town Regional Office: Ms P Bambela Tel No: (021) 402 2193
Durban Regional Office: Mr. BH Khanyeza Tel No: (031) 314 7038
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-57@dpw.gov.za
For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-07@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/130 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS REF NO:
2026/227
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 10 with no experience required. Knowledge: Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) Act; basic literacy; basic numeracy.
Skills: Effective communication (verbal and written); interpersonal relations;
planning of work processes; time management. Computer literacy (Ms Word,
Excel, PowerPoint,). Knowledge of Reapatala system (Invoice tracking system
and Archibus) will be an added advantage. Knowledge of new filling system.
Personal Attributes: Hard working; trustworthy; punctuality; accuracy; polite;
helpful. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Perform general messenger and delivery services. Sort and arrange
correspondences in the registry. Collect submissions and other documents
from the assigned office. Capture invoices on the system. Ensure that
documents to be delivered are recorded on the outgoing book. Sort mail, files,
documents and parcels. Render delivery services. Ensure that items to collect
are sealed and addressed. Deliver mail, files, documents and parcels to
addressees. Deliver submissions between offices. Ensure that the recipients
sign on the delivery book/register. Record contents and physical addresses in
the delivery book/register. Perform general office assistant tasks. Make copies,
fax and shred documents. Render auxiliary administrative support as required.
Support the security profile of the office. Support registry related activities.
Support operator related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mgwadleka Tel No: (021) 402 2032
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-58@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/131 : PHOTOCOPIER REF NO: 2026/228
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 10/ NQF level 2. No experience required. Knowledge of
operating machines and tools as well as Department's procurement processes.
Effective communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal skills. Time
management. Operation of heavy duty photocopy machines. A valid driver
license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Reproduce high quality copies of files and Correspondence. Utilize and
maintain printing and copying machines. Operate the binding machine and bind
copies / prints as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BH Khanyeza Tel No: (031) 3147038
APPLICATIONS : For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-08@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/132 : PHOTOCOPIER OPERATOR: WORKSHOP REF NO: 2026/229
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 10/ NQF level 2. No experience required. Knowledge:
Operation of machinery and tool. Departments procurement processes.
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Skills: Effective communication (verbal
and written); Interpersonal relations; Planning of work processes; Time
management. Operation of heavy-duty photocopying machine.
DUTIES : The provision of support service with regards to the operation of document
103
reproduction service- Receive and document requests for heavy duty
photocopying. Assist with the procurement of reproduction related logistics.
Assist with the control and usage of heavy-duty photocopying machines.
Control and adjust machine settings. Fix machine issues that might occur
during the day. Check output to spot any machine related mistakes or flaws.
Keep records of approved and defective units or final products. Set up
machines (calibration, cleaning etc.) to start a production cycle: -Setting up
machines to start production cycle. Control and adjust machine settings.
Feeding raw papers to the machine. Rendering assistance regarding the
general use of photocopying machine: -inform clients that documents have
been bonded and are complete for collection. Keep stores of lubrications and
tools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-50@dpw.gov.za
POST 16/133 : FOOD SERVICE AID: CLEANING SERVICES REF NO: 2026/230 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of ABET level 4/ Grade 9 or equivalent. No experience required.
Knowledge: Operating kitchen equipment. Handling hazardous materials
(insecticide, cleaning materials, etc). Operating cleaning equipment.
Occupational health and safety. Skills: Interpersonal skills. Basic literacy.
Technical skills. Planning and organizing. Accuracy. Effective communication
DUTIES : Render catering support services-: Setup crockery, cutlery and equipment for
meetings. Prepare refreshments and beverages (water, tea, coffee, milk, sugar
and cold drinks). Clean kitchen utensils, dishes and equipment: Collect and
wash glasses, plates, cups, cutlery and other kitchen utensils after meetings.
Wash glasses and teacups for officials. Clean microwaves, fridges and other
appliances used in the kitchen. Organise and maintain dish washing items and
supplies-: Maintain and keep control of stock levels of dish washing supplies.
Keep dish washing tools safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired or replaced.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-51@dpw.gov.za
104
ANNEXURE S
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of these posts and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity
will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses:
For: For Director-General- e-recruit.DG123@dsd.gov.za
Deputy Director-General: Community Development – e-
recruit.DDGCD@dsd.gov.za
Deputy Director NPO Registration, e-recruit.DDNPO@dsd.gov.za
Senior NPO Officer- e-recruit.SNPOO@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Manager: Intercountry Adoptions - e-
recruit.SWPMIA@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Manager- e-recruit.SWPMVEP@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr R Khobatha
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr R Khobatha.
105
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/134 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: N1/A/2026
(Five-year fixed term contract)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum, plus a 10% non-pensionable HoD allowance. This
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the states’
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion
that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules. The successful candidate will
be required to enter into a performance agreement, sign an employment
contract and disclose her/his financial interest within one month of appointment
and thereafter on an annual basis.
CENTRE : Pretoria, HSRC Building
REQUIREMENTS : A post graduate qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration, Social Sciences or Public Management plus 10 years of
experience at a senior managerial level. Knowledge of i) Constitution of South
Africa; ii) employment related legislations; iii) Public Service legislative
framework and regulations; iv) PFMA and Treasury Regulations and v) Public
Administration. Knowledge and understanding of Policy Development.
Knowledge of i) Social Assistance bills, policies, acts, frameworks and
legislations; ii) National Development Plan; iii) Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA); iv) Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA); v)
of government prescripts and policies; vi) social welfare related legislation,
framework, acts, policies and guidelines and vii) King IV Report for Corporate
Governance. Knowledge and understanding in the planning, monitoring
implementation, compliance and reporting processes. Knowledge of
community development related legislative frameworks, acts, policies and
guidelines. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Financial
Management. Change management. Programme and project management.
People management and empowerment. Knowledge management. Service
delivery innovation. Problem-solving and analysis. Communication.
Negotiation. Executive management. Attributes: Motivational. Influential. Ability
to initiate and support organisational transformation and change. Ability to
explore and implement new ways of delivering service. Ability to provide vision,
set organisational direction and inspire others to deliver on the organisational
mandate. Ability to work together with civil society, business, academia and the
international community. Ability to account and work in an ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and accountability in the implementation of
programmes towards achieving its constitutional, legislative and policy
mandate. Provide leadership for the effective and efficient management and
administration of the department. Provide leadership on inter and intra-
government relations for effective coordination. Provide administrative support
to the Executive Authority in performing oversight functions on the work entities
and regulatory bodies. Serve as a main point of communication between the
Executive Authority and the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr XA Brukwe Tel No: (012) 312-7654/ 7866
POST 16/135 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
N1/B/2026
Branch: Community Development
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 in Developmental Studies/ Social Sciences/
Economic Development/ Community Development as recognized by SAQA
Plus 8 years’ experience at senior management level in the relevant field.
Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge
of Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP). Knowledge of the
Growth Path. Knowledge of Municipal Systems Act. Knowledge of the Rural
106
Development Act. Knowledge of Population and Development Policy.
Knowledge and understanding of policy development. Knowledge and
understanding of the relevant Public Service Legislative frameworks.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of public management and administration principles. Knowledge
and understanding of the NPO framework, and other related Bills and Policies.
Knowledge of population and development policy. Knowledge of White paper
on Transformation of Public Services. Knowledge of Social Service
Professions Act, 110 of 1978, as amended. Understanding of the management
of strategic plans and budgeting. Knowledge of the acts governing the
implementation of social development services and programmes.
Understanding and knowledge of community development related
Legislations, Policies, Frameworks and norms and standards. Knowledge and
understanding of involvement in international structures/ stakeholders (UN
Convention and AU). Knowledge of Kings IV Report for Corporate Governance.
Knowledge of National Development Plan (NDP). Knowledge of National
Development Agency Act. Competencies needed: Strategic capability and
leadership. Programme and project management. Financial management.
Policy analysis and development. Information and knowledge management.
Communication (verbal and written). Service delivery innovation. Problem-
solving and change management. People management and empowerment.
Client orientation and customer focus. Stakeholder management.
Presentation, facilitation and coordination. Attributes: Good interpersonal
relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work
in a team and independently. Adaptability. Independent thinker. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee, manage, and report on the development of sustainable community
development legislative frameworks, policies, strategies, operational
frameworks, guidelines and effective programmes. Oversee, manage and
report on the implementation of sustainable community development
programmes aimed at community mobilization, sustainable livelihood, poverty
alleviation and reduction programmes to empower poor communities, families
and individuals. Oversee, manage and report on coordination, effective and
efficient non-profit organization (NPOs) registration, compliance, operations,
coordination and monitoring systems, processes and application. Oversee and
take responsibility in the implementation of the population policy at all levels of
government and monitor and evaluate the implementation progress of the
Population Policy. Oversee, manage and report on the budget, human
resources, and performance of the branch in line with the set regulations and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr XA Brukwe Tel No: (012) 312-7665/7866
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/136 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NPO REGISTRATION REF NO: L1/A/2026
Chief Directorate: NPO Registration Management and Compliance Monitoring
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Science/ Public
Management/ Information Technology/ Information Systems as recognized by
SAQA plus 3-5 years’ experience at junior management level in the relevant
field. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act and Regulations.
Knowledge and understanding of Social Development Sector. Knowledge and
understanding of Data Quality, Consistency, Data Governance and Security.
Knowledge and understanding of NPO Act and Regulations. Knowledge and
understanding of NPO regulatory frameworks. Knowledge and understanding
of National Archive Act and Electronic Communication and Transactions Act.
Knowledge and understanding of PAIA and POPIA. Competencies needed:
Communication (verbal and written). Policy analysis and development.
Planning and organising. People management. Project coordinator. Problem
solving. Computer literacy. Facilitation and presentation. Stakeholder and client
liaison. Monitoring. Reporting writing. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations.
107
Innovation and creativity. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent
thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Develop, review and monitor the implementation of policies, guidelines, norms,
standards and processes for NPO registration. Manage the NPO data
warehouse and architecture. Manage efficient NPO registration and monitoring
compliance processes in terms of the NPO Act. Manage NPO registry services
and document flow within the NPO. Manage, and report. Manage, and report
on the human resources, and performance in line with the set regulations and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mngxitama Tel No: (012) 312-7015
POST 16/137 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO: L1/B/2026
Directorate: Adoptions and Internation
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker plus ten (10) years’ appropriate
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP
of which five (5) years must be appropriate experience in social work policy
development. Knowledge of the relevant Public Service legislation. Knowledge
of childcare and protection legislative frameworks and policies in relation to
intercountry adoption. Competencies needed: Project management skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Networking skills. Coordination skills.
Communication (verbal and written) skills. Professional counselling skills.
Policy Analysis and development skills. Financial Management skills.
Presentation skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management
skills. Ability to compile complex reports. Attributes: Ability to work under
pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Adaptability. Compliant. Assertive.
DUTIES : Develop, review, amend and implement legislation, policies, strategies,
guidelines and programmes in relation to intercountry adoption. Coordinate the
Department of Social Development (DSD) Adoption Forum by facilitating all the
processes to host and the attendance of these Quarterly fora by Provincial
representatives. Coordinate and monitor inter-country adoptions by liaising and
responding to all enquiries from stakeholders Nationally and Internationally.
Assessing and verifying inter-country adoption applications received and
facilitate the issuance of Article 17s’ in line with the 1993 Hague Convention on
the Protection of Children and Cooperation in respect of Intercountry adoption.
Facilitate inter-country adoption between South Africa and foreign countries.
Manage the implementation of working agreements on inter-country adoptions.
Supervising Social Work Policy Developer by providing mentoring, coaching
and support. Represent the Directorate on issues related to intercountry
adoptions. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work field
pertaining to intercountry adoptions. Perform administrative functions required
in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Tebogo Mabe Tel No: (012) 312-7144/3
POST 16/138 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO: L1/C/2026
Directorate: VEP and Prevention of Gender-Based Violence
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker plus ten (10) years’ appropriate
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP
108
of which five (5) years must be appropriate experience in social work policy
development. Knowledge in Victim Empowerment Programme and Prevention
of Gender Based Violence. Experience is critical in prevention of crime and
violence in line with legislation, policies and strategies such as Domestic
Violence Act, Trafficking in Person Act, Sexual Offences and Related Matters
amendments, National Strategic Plan on GBVF, Sheltering services and
Psychosocial Provision. Exposure will be an added advantage on other pieces
of legislation within the Social Development sector including the Children Act,
Older Persons Act as amended disability services and key populations.
Willingness to travel extensively. Competencies needed: Programme
development, Project management skills. Planning and organising skills.
Networking skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills. Professional
counselling skills. Policy analysis and development skills. Financial
management skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Report writing.
Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to compile
complex reports. Attributes: Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Innovative and creative. Friendly and trustworthy.
Integrity.
DUTIES : Develop, facilitate, monitor and support the implementation of policies,
legislation, strategies, guidelines and programmes aimed at prevention,
response, care, support, healing and empowering victims of crime and
violence, with specific focus on Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF).
Coordinate and oversee the funding, compliance and capacity building of
national NPOs delivering Victim Empowerment Programme (VEP) services.
Lead and facilitate the implementation of the National Strategic Plan on GBVF,
including oversight on service delivery by NPOs in the VEP sector,
strengthening referral pathways and improving intersectoral coordination.
Establish and support the operationalisation of Khuseleka One Stop Centres
and (GBV) shelters, ensuring alignment with policy frameworks and service
delivery standards. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of intersectoral
sheltering services in districts, province and local level, ensuring compliance,
quality service delivery and continuous improvement of services to victims and
survivors of GBV. Consult and liaise with key stakeholders across government,
civil society and other sectors to enhance collaboration, partnerships and
programme effectiveness including social crime prevention
programmes/interventions in the VEP space. Mainstream VEP services within
and outside the department, participate in strategic forums, and consolidate
reports in line with national priorities. Manage and ensure effective functioning
of the policy unit through efficient utilisation of resources, adherence to
regulatory frameworks, and continuous research to inform policy development
and programme improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Malope Tel No: (012) 312 7410
POST 16/139 : SENIOR NPO OFFICER REF NO: L1/D/2026
Directorate: Non-Profit Organisations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Public Administration, Social
Science, Community Development/Public Management/Law as recognized by
SAQA plus 1-2 years’ experience in the NPO or development sector.
Knowledge of the General Public Service regulatory framework. Knowledge
and understanding of Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge and
Understanding of Non-Profit sector. Knowledge and understanding of filing
systems. Knowledge and understanding of regulatory framework. Knowledge
and understanding of Financial Action Task Force Standards. Knowledge and
understanding of Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism Financing.
Knowledge and understanding of Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activity
Act (PCCAA). Competencies needed: Communication (written and verbal).
Planning and Organising. Problem solving. Policy analysis. Office
management and administration. Computer literacy. Client liaison. Analytical.
Report writing. Attributes: Friendly. Accuracy. Confidence. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Self-starter. Systematic
and logical.
DUTIES : Provide NPO administration support services. Conduct Assessment and
Quality Assurance of NPO Documents. Investigate and Inspect on Compliance
109
and Non-Compliance of NPO’s. Coordinate NPO Outreach and Awareness
Programmes. Supervision and Personal Development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Sekele Tel No: (012) 312 7013
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, African, Coloured,
Indian and White males; Coloured, Indian and White females as well as
persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
110
ANNEXURE T
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post advert
must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be
fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed below.
Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies will be subjected to a psychometric
assessment as part of the current SMS competency assessment framework.
Appointment validity will be conditional to signing of the employment contract,
performance agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and must attain a
security clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting to the Department of
Tourism processing your personal information, subject to POPIA, by applying
for this post.
111
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/140 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: TOURISM RESEARCH, POLICY AND
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: DT 30/2026
Tourism is a key driver of economic growth, job creation, transformation, and
international positioning for South Africa. This role sits at the strategic core of
how the country designs, measures, promotes, and negotiates its tourism
future. The Department of Tourism invites visionary, strategic, and results-
driven leaders to apply for this position. This is a pivotal executive leadership
role responsible for steering South Africa’s tourism research agenda, policy
architecture, internal positioning, and strategic sector partnerships. If you are
a bold thinker with the gravitas to operate at national and international levels,
this is your opportunity to influence one of South Africa’s most dynamic
economic sectors. The purpose of this role is to provide executive leadership
in tourism research and knowledge management, national tourism policy and
strategy development, international tourism relations and cooperation, and
strategic sector partnerships and stakeholder coordination.
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA NQF Level 8 post-graduate qualification in
Tourism/Economics/Development Studies or related field. A relevant Master's
Degree or PhD will be an added advantage; minimum of 8 years’ experience
at a senior managerial level. Essential knowledge and skills: Strategic
leadership and policy expertise; Public Finance Management knowledge;
Ability to work effectively across functions, projects and teams; Strong
stakeholder and international diplomacy capabilities; Governance and
executive decision-making skills; Advanced analytical and monitoring
capability, Exceptional communication and negotiation skills; Innovative,
problem-solving, and strong interpersonal skills; Good report-writing skills; A
high level of computer literacy, Strong report writing and communication skills;
Financial, human resource and project management skills; A sound
understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework including Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Valid driver’s
license (Persons with disabilities that prevent them from driving will still be
considered); Willingness to travel and work long hours when required. One of
the minimum entry requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate. For more
details on the pre-entry course, visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. One of the minimum entry requirements for
SMS is the pre-entry certificate. For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting directly to the Director-General and serving on the department’s
strategic management team, the successful candidate will lead a broad and
critical portfolio spanning research and knowledge management, policy and
strategy, international relations, and strategic partnerships. He/she will be:
responsible for providing strategic and operational direction to the Branch;
Oversee national tourism research to inform policy and strategic planning;
Ensure implementation of the National Tourism Information and Monitoring
Systems; Monitor and Evaluate departmental programmes against
government programmes; Lead development and review of National Tourism
Sector Strategy; Coordinate integrated tourism policy across spheres of
government; Coordinate the implementation of the Tourism Growth Partnership
Plan; Strengthen stakeholder coordination and sector alignment; Drive South
Africa’s tourism interests through bilateral and multilateral engagements;
Support African regional integration an global tourism diplomacy; Promote
national priorities through strategic internal cooperation; Oversee public-
private working groups; Lead ministerial and parliamentary engagements;
Coordinate national stakeholder consultation framework; Manage branch
strategy, governance, performance and budget; Ensure sound financial, risk
and human resource management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Dreyer Tel No: (012) 444 6543
APPLICATIONS : email application: Recruitment30@tourism.gov.za
112
POST 16/141 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DT31/2026
The Department of Tourism is seeking an exceptional, strategic, and visionary
leader to join its executive management team. This is a pivotal leadership
opportunity for a dynamic and accomplished professional to help shape the
backbone of the Department by driving institutional excellence, strengthening
governance, and providing strategic direction across the corporate
management environment.
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised NQF level 8 qualification and 8 years’ experience
at a senior managerial level; Experience and skills in public policy are required;
Experience in the corporate service environment will be a strong advantage.
Essential knowledge and skills: Proven strategic management and leadership
capabilities; A sound understanding of Government and stakeholder
engagement; An analytical thinker with a strong background in strategic
management and governance coordination, proven turnaround strategy and
change management capabilities; Strong attention to detail and goal-
orientation; Organisational design and development skills; The ability to work
proactively in a technology-enabled environment; The ability to work effectively
across functions, projects and teams; Innovation, problem-solving and strong
interpersonal skills; Strong report-writing and communication skills; A high level
of computer literacy; Financial, human resource and project management
skills; Sound understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework and
willingness to travel and work long hours when required. Valid driver’s license
(Persons with disabilities that prevent them from driving will still be considered).
One of the minimum entry requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate
submitted prior to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting directly to the Director-General and serving on the department's
strategic management team, the successful candidate will lead a broad and
critical portfolio spanning strategy, systems, people, communications, legal
support, service delivery improvement, internal controls, and branch-wide
resource management. He/she will: Be responsible for providing strategic and
operational direction to the Branch; Manage and coordinate strategic planning
and implementation systems; Leading the department’s strategic Information
Communications Technology support services; Providing entity oversight and
interface services in support of the executive authority; Providing strategic and
efficient support for Human Resource Management and Development, Labour
Relations and Employee Wellness, Facilities and Security Management;
Managing the provisioning of Legal services; Leading the development and
review of Departmental policies; Developing innovative digital solutions;
Ensuring organisational compliance with relevant policies and prescripts;
Driving service delivery and transformation programmes; Overseeing office
support, logistics and auxiliary services; Ensuring effective internal controls
and risk management; Manage the budget and broader resources for the
Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Dreyer Tel No: (012) 444 6543
APPLICATIONS : email application: Recruitment31@tourism.gov.za
113
ANNEXURE U
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Deputy Director: Social, Governance
and Justice (IDC) was erroneously placed with Ref No: S058/2026 advertised
in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 08 May 2026, the correct Ref No
for this position is Ref No: S064/2026. The closing date has been extended to
08 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday).
114
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/142 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING, ACQUISITION AND
OPERATIONS REF NO: S062/2026
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To manage the human resources operations and administration
process and provide strategic solutions for a talent pipeline attracting the
required talent for business in alignment with recruitment strategies and the
implementation of benefits and compensation in compliance with policies and
procedures.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 and a Bachelor Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in:
Human Resources Management or Business Administration or Management
or Public Administration or Public Management or Psychology or Industrial
Psychology or Social Sciences. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level obtained in the broader the HR environment.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Human Resources
management frameworks, application of the Public Service Acts and
Regulations and government’s HR Information Systems. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Strategy development and implementation: Develop and implement Human
Resources operational business strategies and plans to optimise operational
efficiency. Provide direction and support to staff on the implementation of the
strategy. Review and align the strategy as required by departmental, DPSA and
best practice developments. Human resources operational management:
Ensure that best possible HR systems and processes are in place to enable
HR support on employee benefits to the whole National Treasury workforce.
Benchmark HR Ops activities against private, public and international trends
to ensure the delivering of best practice services. Produce monthly, quarterly
and annual reports and administer human resources management and control
systems. Develop a Recruitment Strategy: Establish short and long-term
recruiting strategies to deliver on key organizational metrics (i.e. cost per hire,
time to fill, quality of hire). Develop targeted talent pipelines that deliver talent
to business within established search timelines and time-to-fill metrics. Partner
with HR Account Managers and senior line managers to educate key
stakeholders on strategies to optimize the attraction of talent. Strategize the
recruitment life cycle for the recruiting team (internal recruiters, contractors and
agencies) to include hiring, coaching, managing performance, and vendor
replacement. Establishment information and Records Management: Manage
the National Treasury establishment through the analysis of management
reports for client’s information. Provide an information dashboard on the
establishment. Ensure the management and safekeeping of all employees’
records and formulate a records management strategy. Recruitment
Management: Manage the development of the Recruitment & selection
framework relevant to strategic needs of the Department. Oversee various
sourcing channels and align to current and future recruitment demand. Develop
and implement effective assessment techniques & selection processes and
procedures. Oversee the recruitment and selection procedures and
implementation thereof.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
115
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/143 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FISCAL RESEARCH REF NO: S061/2026
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied previously must re-apply
Purpose: To facilitate the fiscal policy research agenda of the National Treasury
on the short and long-term impacts of fiscal policy decisions. To support the
macro-fiscal process and assist with the production of relevant budget
documentation.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Mathematics or Mathematical Statistics. A minimum 3 years’ experience is
required in fiscal analysis, public finance, or an economic research
environment. Experience in policy development and communication is also
valued. Knowledge of Economic Analysis and Research. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Fiscal Policy Research: Undertake Fiscal Policy research consistent with the
requirements of the National Treasury and review the broader international
macro-economic environment, institutional frameworks for their impacts on
fiscal sustainability. Provide inputs in the development of policy and implement
policy decisions of fiscal nature. Undertake research in line with the
requirements of the Fiscal Policy requirements and the broader international
macro-economic environment, institutional frameworks and fiscal
sustainability. Maintain debt sustainability model and revenue analysis
workbook. Database Management and Fiscal Framework Analysis: Research
and analyse government financial statistics database. Create and maintain a
standard Fiscal Policy database for analysis of information. Assist and maintain
the consolidated government fiscal framework which includes the General
Government Finance Statistics database. Provide analysis and reports
pertaining to the fiscal framework for the bi-annual budget processes. Provide
support to chapters inputs and general editing of documents. Budget Review
and MTBPS: Assist with the budget media analysis prior to the official
presentation. Provide inputs for the Q&A document and media lockups, prior
to budget presentation. Arrange the post-budget feedback for civil society and
public-sector economic forums. Benchmarking Research: Undertake
benchmarking, economic research, analysis and the relation to fiscal policy.
Provide research into the levels of the various fiscal indicators and their
implications for sustainability, growth, and development. Engage stakeholders
on broader economic issues, drawing particular attention to the role and impact
of government.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 16/144 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: S059/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To support the provision of effective business continuity
management, support services sound monitoring of plans, stakeholder
management and record keeping.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 and Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 6) in:
Risk Management/Internal Auditing/ Auditing or Financial Management or
Public Administration or Security Management. Professional accreditation with
the Business Continuity Institute or equivalent professional body. A minimum
of 3 years’ working experience in Business Continuity Management and
Compliance Management; and knowledge of the broader risk management
framework.
DUTIES : Development, review and maintenance of Business Continuity Policy and
standards: Assist in researching the regulatory environment and best practice
governing business continuity in the public service. Determine the identity and
role of key stakeholders for consultation on the business continuity policy.
Develop continuity and recovery strategies: Consult the draft business
continuity strategy with key stakeholders. Prepare the draft annual business
116
continuity management implementation plan. Monitor progress on the business
continuity management implementation plan. Conduct Business Impact
Analysis and Risk Assessment: Maintain records of business impact analysis
information (tools, workbooks, minutes of meetings and reports). Identify and
convene Divisions/Chief Directorates that are due for business impact analysis
from operational changes or lapse of time. Develop, review and test the
business continuity plan: Maintain records of business continuity plan
information (version control, annexures, etc.). Consult with key stakeholders
on the overlaps across the business continuity plan and other NT contingency
plans. Maintain records of business continuity plan test information (minutes of
test meetings, test results, reports etc.). Embedding BCM in the NT culture:
Convene business continuity management awareness workshops and prepare
draft business continuity awareness material. Assist in the provision of
awareness initiative to the business continuity management team and the crisis
management team (EXCO). Coordinate incident management: Maintain
records of the NT incident management system (version control, annexures,
etc.). Assist in the provision of advice on the effective response to disruptive
and potentially disruptive incidents. Compile monthly and quarterly reports to
management and oversight structures: Prepare reports on implementation of
business continuity management to a Deputy Director: Business Continuity
Management.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 16/145 : PROGRAMME COORDINATOR REF NO: S063/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To coordinate and render an administrative support service to the
business unit striving towards the attainment of a cohesive and broader
integrated working environment.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF Level 6) degree (equivalent to NQF Level 7) in Office Administration or
Public Administration or Business Management or Project Management. A
minimum 2 years’ experience obtained in an administrative environment.
Knowledge of the legislative framework on administration management within
government. Knowledge and exposure to the coordination of budget
coordination processes. Knowledge of the analysis and interpretation of
internal policies for the correct application thereof.
DUTIES : Integrated Business Support: Client Service Support: Co-ordinate and perform
quality assurance on processes pertaining to all in-coming and out-going
memoranda for service enhancement and standardization. Develop and
maintain a filing system for record and audit purposes within the Office of the
Chief Director; Monitor the effectiveness of service delivery within the Office of
the Chief Director and propose improvement where necessary. Administer
leave centrally within the business environment and update the leave register
for verification. Assist with the monitoring of all procurement and administrative
initiatives and verify alignment of claims and invoices. Provide input to
memoranda and record receipt thereof on the electronic filing system for record
purposes, editing, etc, if and when required. Business Support: Acknowledge
and confirm meetings, invitations to workshops on behalf of the Office of the
Chief Director. Provide inputs to the compilation of agendas, initiating the taking
minutes for the Office of the Chief Director, and follow-up on outstanding
commitments from stakeholders. Administer all duties with utmost discretion in
the execution of confidential matters and converse with clients in utmost
diplomacy. Stakeholder Relations and Engagement: Engage internal clients on
the coordination and enhancement of the integration of dual processes for
execution within the unit. Attend to clients’ needs, address concerns and
complaints timeously, improve relations with stakeholders, and obtain their
trust. Analyse quotations for the attainment of the most effective and efficient
procurement of goods and services and advise accordingly. Budget Co-
ordination: Assist and prepare relevant documentation pertaining to the
consolidated budgetary inputs in compliance with the MTEF requirements and
cycle. Monitor expenditure against commitments and sensitise on possible
overspending. Initiate the movement of funds between items after consultation
with relevant stakeholders and compile relevant papers for execution.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
117
POST 16/146 : HELPDESK: RSA RETAIL BONDS REF NO: S033/2026
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied previously must re-apply
Purpose: To enhance and assist with the daily operations of the retail bonds by
offering timeous and concise client service support to the RSA Retail Bonds
Directorate in the Asset and Liability Management division.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 coupled with National Diploma (equivalent to NQF level
6) in Office Administration or Office Management or Marketing or Media
Studies or Communications or Public Relations or Public Management or
Public Administration, Business Management or Business Administration. A
minimum 1-2 years’ work experience in Call Centre or related; Exposure to an
Office Administration set-up environment; and Basic knowledge of financial
markets.
DUTIES : Client Service Support: Daily operation of RSA Retail Bond helpline. Provision
of all operational documents to clients on request. Serve as access point to
attend to all queries related to RSA Retail Bond and related issues. Process
telephonic application and acknowledge the receipt thereof in writing. Process
telephonic roll overs and assign incident number for recording purposes. Guide
and assist clients with online registration and application processes. General
Office Administration: Scan all incoming documentation for record and
compliance purposes and easy electronic access. Assign incoming requests
and documents to the back-office team responsible for actioning the request.
Marketing and social media: Assist with responding to queries made on social
media posts. Participate in expos and marketing events. Correspondence to
stakeholders: Prepare tax certificates and send-off by electronic mail to
investors. Prepare interest statements of investors and send by electronic mail,
Update investors on the status of their investments through electronic mail
upon request, Reissue correspondence to investor upon request.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
118
ANNEXURE V
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be
required to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security
clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police
clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/147 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE SUPPORT REF NO: 290526/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: MP
CD: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF Level 7 qualification in Public / Business Administration /
Management. Five (5) years management experience in Administration
environment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge
and understanding of applicable public service policies and strategies.
Understanding of administration processes. Disciplinary knowledge of HR
information. Understanding of government legislations. Knowledge of financial
management and PFMA. Knowledge of techniques and procedures for the
planning and execution of operations. Understanding of programme and
project management. Good interpersonal skills and analytical procedures.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Excellent communication skills (both verbal
and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Coordinate, consolidate and report on the planning. Coordinate and
consolidate inputs for strategic and annual plans. Management of queries and
correspondence within the office. Coordinating matters relating to portfolio
committee issues, referrals, audit findings, parliamentary queries, risk
management etc for the programme and ensure meeting timelines/deadlines
119
of those requests. Ensure documents management. Develop and maintain
system in the office that will contribute towards improving efficiency. Provide
management support to the office and represent the Head Provincial
Operations at meetings, workshops engagements etc. Record minutes,
decisions and communicate to relevant role players, follow-up on progress
made, prepare briefing notes as well as other documents to adequately
prepare the Head Provincial Operations. Provide financial administrative
support to the office. Determine and collate information regarding the budget
needs of the office. Management of human resources of the Provincial
Operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Sifunda Tel No: (013) 759 7311/013 759 7312, Mr Vilane Zwelakhe Tel
No: (013) 759 7496/Mr Mushwana Nzima Tel No: (013) 759 7334
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 16/148 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: 290526/02
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Dir: Infrastructure and Operations
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Information Technology. HP/3Com/Aruba
networking, A+ and N+ certificate. Five (5) years with supervisory experience
in WAN and LAN administration. Knowledge in information and communication
technology. Knowledge of HP/3Com/Aruba networking. Knowledge at Cisco
networking. Knowledge of information security protocols. Knowledge of
techniques and procedures for the planning and execution of IT operations.
Problem solving and analysis. Knowledge in customer relations.
Understanding of public financial management act (PFMA), Public Service Act
and regulation. Understanding of government legislation. Knowledge of IT
regulations, practice notes, circulars and policy frameworks. Understanding of
public supply chain management models and processes. Knowledge of
contract management. Knowledge of analytical procedures. Understanding
delegation authority. Understanding framework for managing performance
information. Knowledge of business strategy transactions and alignment. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Understanding of project and
programme management. Client orientation and customer focus.
Accountability and ethical conduct. Problem solving and analysis. People and
diversity management. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Administer, configure, and maintain WAN (Wide Area Network) and LAN (Local
Area Network) systems to ensure optimal performance in DWS head office and
across all DWS Regional offices. Manage HP/3Com/Aruba and Cisco
networking equipment, including routers, WIFI and switches. Conduct regular
network performance analysis and troubleshooting to resolve connectivity
issues. Implement proactive measures to prevent recurring network problems.
Provide user support, network management and network monitoring. WAN and
LAN research, planning, design and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Diradingwe Tel No: (012) 336 8466
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 16/149 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 290526/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: NC Provincial
Operations Northern Cape
SD: Corporate Support Services
Div: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 4 or Senior/Grade 12 Certificate. National Diploma in
Security Management will serve as an added advantage. A valid Security
Grade A PSIRA Certificate. A valid SAPS Firearm Competency for Rifle,
Shotgun and Pistol will serve as an added advantage. Three (3) years’
supervisory experience in a security environment. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy and skills in MS Office Software
package. Knowledge of prescribed security legislation e.g. MISS, Protection of
120
Information Act, etc. Knowledge and experience of emergency procedures.
Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety. Sound knowledge in
interpretation and application of security code of conduct, security legislations
and directives. Good listing, communication, and interpersonal skills. Ability to
interact with people at all levels and work in a team environment. Analytical
thinking. Problem-solving and analysis. Ability to handle conflicts and excellent
report writing skills. Work under pressure, willingness to travel throughout the
Area Office and work extended hours.
DUTIES : Implement security polices in line with relevant acts and national directives as
determined. Monitor threats and risk analysis. Ensure firearm regulation is
implemented accordingly. Manage deployment and the functioning of security
operations. Implement emergency contingency and procedures. Conduct
safety inspections. Safeguard Departmental assets. Conducts investigations of
security incidents and breaches. Liaise with National Intelligence Agency (NIA),
South African Police Services (SAPS), other security agencies and DWS
National Security Manager Coordinate security awareness and training.
Ensure the safe custody and protection of officials, assets and information
through the implementation and adherence to the MISS/MPSS. Supervision of
human resources. Manage and evaluate staff performance on an on-going
basis. Manage private security service provider’s contracts. Provide
operational and administrative assistance regarding security activities, forums,
training, vetting, risk assessments and security reports. Conduct investigations
where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MJ Moletsane Tel No: (053) 830 8800
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 16/150 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 290526/04
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 2 or relevant qualification. The disclosure of a valid code 8
Driver’s License. One (1) year experience in driver/messenger environment.
Knowledge of driving services. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety
protocol. High sense of responsibility and accountability. Record keeping and
reporting procedures. Reliability and punctuality. Maintain strict confidentiality.
DUTIES : Drive light motor vehicles. Complete vehicle logbook and trip authorisation.
Collection and drop-off of documents. Collect and drop off officials to and from
varies destinations. Conduct routine checks on safety of vehicle. Assist in
registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mabelane Tel No: (012) 336 6783
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
121
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/Login
CLOSING DATE : 04 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE/DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in
disqualification. The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A
clear indication of the post and reference number that is being applied for must
be indicated on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
Z83 with a detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on
or before the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks, qualification and employment verification including social media
profiles). Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance
process. The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual
performance agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her
financial interests. All applicants are required to declare any conflict or
perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and
directorships that they may be associated with. Applicants, who do not comply
with the requirements outlined above, will not be considered. Note: All
shortlisted candidates may be expected to demonstrate their skills in a short
task as part of the interview and will be subjected to a security clearance.
Shortlisted candidates may perform competency assessment. The successful
candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement, annually
disclose his/ her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/151 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: PS4/2026/01
Free State Department of Education Early Childhood Administration and
Reporting System (eCares) Manager
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : EMIS Sub-Directorate: Bloemfontein (supporting ECD)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a SAQA-recognised three-year post-
matric qualification (NQF Level 7) in Information Systems / ICT / Computer
Science / Data or related field. 6-7 years’ relevant experience in Systems
administration and user support; User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and training
facilitation. Data reporting and system usage monitoring. Knowledge of: Cloud-
based system operations; Provincial EMIS environment and/or ECD system
landscape. Strong analytical, data manipulation and reporting skills (Excel
advanced level). Ability to coordinate multi-level stakeholders (national,
provincial, district). Problem-solving ability, attention to detail, and customer
service orientation. Ability to work independently and travel extensively. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for Provincial eCares System Use
& Performance management. Lead provincial support for system usage,
performance and adoption; Monitor user compliance with system functionality
and data workflows; Advocate system utilisation for decision-making. User
Support & Access Management; Manage 1st line helpdesk support for PED
users; Manage user access, roles and permissions; Escalate issues promptly
to national and service providers. User Training & Capacity Building- Conduct
ongoing training on: New releases; Functional improvements; Reporting and
dashboards. Support districts and circuits to drive usage. Testing &
Implementation-Lead provincial testing of system releases and updates;
Develop test plans, record UAT outcomes, submit feedback to developers;
122
Validate system enhancements prior to deployment. Systems Maintenance
Support- Work with DBE and vendors (e.g. Mezzanine/Vodacom) to ensure
continuity; Identify and resolve technical issues affecting provincial users.
Reporting & Master Data Management-Maintain alignment between eCares
and EMIS Masterlists; Validate EMIS number allocation in eCares; Support
provincial reporting needs and accuracy. Stakeholder Collaboration-Work
closely with PED ECD and EMIS Directorates; National EMIS and ECD teams
social partners such as Ilifa Labantwana and the Bana Pele Initiative. The
candidate will report to the provincial EMIS head and work closely with the ECD
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Randall Pienaar, Acting Director IT and Information systems at 079 503
5400
POST 16/152 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: PS4/2026/02
Free State Department of Education Early Childhood Operations Manager
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : ECD Directorate: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must have a SAQA-recognised three-year post-matric qualification
(NQF Level 6 or higher) with Project Management as an added advantage.
Minimum 5 years’ experience in an operational delivery or implementation
support role. Experience in ECD programme implementation, stakeholder
coordination and provincial support. Proven experience in planning and
coordinating multi-functional projects. Strong communication, facilitation and
reporting skills. Ability to influence, negotiate and drive delivery across
provincial/district stakeholders. Ability to travel extensively and work beyond
normal working hours. Understanding ECD registration, infrastructure support
and subsidy processes will be advantageous. A valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating the execution of
national ECD registration, subsidy and overall ECD business process
improvement plans at provincial and district levels. Adapting national plans for
provincial implementation and securing approvals from PED leadership.
Facilitating training on registration processes, subsidy workflows and eCares
system updates. Coordinating stakeholder engagements and ensuring
alignment across key departments and sector partners. Supporting ELP
implementation and ensuring requirements are met to achieve minimum
compliance for subsidy fulfilment. Monitoring district delivery, tracking
performance and ensuring timely resolution of blockages. Facilitating reporting
processes, including weekly updates, dashboard monitoring and provincial
consolidation. Driving execution of new initiatives to improve registration,
subsidy and other ECD Business process administration efficiency. Provide
ongoing implementation support to district teams and programme
interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. AN Mofokeng, Acting Director: Early Childhood Care and Education
(ECCE) at 072 240 3974 or Tel No: (057) 3917271
POST 16/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: PS4/2026/03
Free State Department of Education Early Childhood Development Data
Quality Assurance officer
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : EMIS Sub-Directorate: Bloemfontein (supporting ECD)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must have a SAQA-recognised three-year post-matric qualification
(NQF6 or higher) in Data Management, Information Systems, Statistics, Social
Sciences, M&E or related field. A postgraduate qualification in a relevant field
will be an added advantage. 5 years’ experience in data management, data
quality assurance, monitoring or system support. Experience in the education
sector data (e.g., EMIS) or ECD programmes is beneficial. Strong proficiency
in: Microsoft Excel and data validation; Business Intelligence tools (e.g., Power
BI, Tableau) advantageous; Basic database and reporting processes. Ability to
support end-users and provide helpdesk-style guidance. Good communication
(verbal & written) and stakeholder coordination skills. Problem-solving,
attention to detail, and the ability to work independently. A valid driver’s licence
and willingness to travel provincially.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for monitoring and improving
accuracy, completeness and consistency of ECD data in the Early childhood
123
Administration and Reporting System -eCares. Supporting district and
provincial users with data entry, uploads, corrections and troubleshooting.
Conducting data quality checks and implementing improvement measures.
Maintaining records of discrepancies, resolutions and reporting artefacts.
Supporting preparation of routine provincial and district reports. Conducting
and supporting user training and capacity-building. Promoting the utilisation of
dashboards and reports for planning and service delivery. Supporting user
access management and assisting with system usage queries. Collaborating
with national, provincial and district stakeholders to drive improved data quality
practices. Conduct or support training sessions (virtually and in-person) for
provincial and district users on data quality requirements (working with
provincial training team). Reinforce importance of accurate data entry and
maintenance. Share tips and guidance for improving data quality. Design and
implement data quality and completeness reviews. Advocate for use of eCares
reports and dashboards to support ECD operations and planning. Advocate
and train province and district users in using reports and dashboards to support
their operations and planning for ECD, including data collection where
appropriate (initialisation of eCares usage to support ECD business processes
and ECD related Data usage and reporting practices). Ensuring that reports
and new plans are prepared with enough lead time to get the necessary
approvals. The candidate will report to the provincial EMIS head and work
closely with the ECD Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Randall Pienaar, Acting Director IT and Information systems at 079 503
5400
POST 16/154 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: PS4/2026/05 (X2 POSTS)
Senior ECD Data/Administration Support Officer
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : EMIS Sub-Directorate: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a relevant post-school qualification in
Information Systems, Education, Data Analysis, Public Administration, or a
related field. The successful candidate must demonstrate strong computer
literacy, including proficiency in MS Office, online systems, and data entry
platforms, as well as practical experience using information systems or
databases. Candidates should have experience in system rollout support,
training facilitation, or user support, preferably within the education or Early
Childhood Development (ECD) sector. Intermediate data analysis and
reporting skills are required, including the ability to identify data quality issues,
trends, and gaps. Applicants must have strong problem-solving and analytical
thinking skills, effective verbal and written communication skills, and the ability
to explain technical concepts clearly to district officials and ECD service
providers. Willingness to travel within the province and provide on-site support
to users is essential.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for supporting the effective rollout,
adoption, and day-to-day use of the eCares system across districts and ECD
service providers. Key responsibilities include: Providing first-line user support
to district officials and ECD centres on system usage, data capture, document
uploads, enrolment updates, and troubleshooting. Delivering hands-on training
and coaching to users to strengthen system adoption and improve data quality.
Supporting data management, verification, and maintenance, ensuring
accurate and timely submission of ECD information. Conducting basic data
analysis and reporting to support operational decision-making and funding
processes. Escalating unresolved technical or system issues to provincial or
national support structures where required. Promoting a culture of data use,
learning, and accountability within district ECD structures. Contributing to the
continuous improvement of training and support approaches based on user
feedback and operational needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Randall Pienaar, Acting Director IT and Information systems at 079 503
5400
POST 16/155 : SOCIAL SERVICES PROFESSIONAL REF NO: PS4/2026/04 (X6 POSTS)
Social Worker
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 per annum, (OSD). Salary notch will be determined taking
years of experience after registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker into consideration.
124
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
ECD Directorate: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate Certificate or Bachelor’s
degree in Social Auxiliary Work/ Social Work. Registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Profession as a Social Worker/ Social
Auxiliary Worker. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Social Work/ Social
Auxiliary Work. Knowledge of early child development, the policies and
legislation regulating ECD, age-appropriate stimulation and play-based
learning, ECD registration requirement and the ECD subsidy process. Strong
administrative and compliance skills are required, particularly in record keeping
and documentation, and the application of ECD registration requirements. The
ability to monitor attendance, incidents and progress in ECD programmes. The
ability to mobilise community resources and to collaborate with NGOs, clinics,
schools and other government departments. Knowledge of data confidentiality
and the ethical handling of information.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing administrative and
compliance support across the Registration, Infrastructure Support, and ECD
Subsidy business processes. Processing, organising, and tracking centre-level
documentation required for registration and funding. Uploading and managing
digital records of ECD programmes on DBE-approved platforms. Monitoring
application progress and flagging incomplete or incorrect submission of
application documentation. Preparing district reports and data updates,
including evidence for site visit readiness. Liaising with district officials, ECD
centres, and field staff to coordinate follow-ups and site visits. Mapping and
updating ECD centre information at the district level. Accompanying provincial
and/ or district officials on ECD site visits, supporting document collection,
practitioner engagement, and registration/subsidy query resolution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. AN Mofokeng, Acting Director: Early Childhood Care and Education
(ECCE) at 072 240 3974 or Tel No: (057) 391 7271
125
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be e-mailed to GDARDInternship@gauteng.gov.za
quoting the relevant reference number on the e-mail subject line.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae only, in PDF
and as one (1) document or attachment. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application
will not be accepted. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews and must be
available for interviews, at a date and time determined by the Department.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. Personnel suitability checks will also
be administered as a part of the selection process. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. If you have not been contacted within a three month
after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The applicants must not have previously participated in an
internship programme in the Public Service. The qualifications must be from an
accredited institutions of higher learning. Candidates whose appointments
promote representativity in terms of race, gender and disability will receive
preference.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026 – 2028
The Gauteng Department of Agriculture and Rural Development invites unemployed South African
graduates to apply for the 2026 to 2028 Internship Programme. Graduates must be in possession of a
completed National Diploma / Bachelor’s degree/ Honour’s degree in the below-mentioned disciplines/
fields. The Programme will be for non-renewable contract period of twenty-four (24) months.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/156 : FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: FM2026 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Financial Management/ Accounting Science.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/157 : RURAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: RD2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Developmental Studies or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/158 : RECORD MANAGEMENT REF NO: RM2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
126
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Archives and Records Management/ Library and
Information Science or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/159 : AGRO-PROCESSING REF NO: AP2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Food Technology/ Food Science or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/160 : AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING REF NO: RTDS 2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Agricultural Engineering or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/161 : ANIMAL HEALTH REF NO: AH2026/01 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/ Degree in in Animal Health or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/162 : ANIMAL HEALTH REF NO: AH2026/02 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Germiston
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/ Degree in in Animal Health or related qualification
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
POST 16/163 : LAND CARE REF NO: EES2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Project Management/Public Management
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thandiwe Tsutsu Tel No: (011) 240 2586
127
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Kindly note that no payment of any kind is required when applying for posts
advertised by the Gauteng Department of Health. The Department reserves
the right not to fill any advertised posts. Applications should be accompanied
by a fully completed and signed new Z83 (81/971431) form obtainable from
any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents plus a recently updated comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV), Registration Certificate with relevant professional body
(HPCSA) and proof of current registration (Annual Practicing Certificate/Card).
Applications without proof of a new Z83 application form, a detailed CV,
registration certificate and proof of current registration certificate/card with a
professional body will be disqualified. The new Z83 form must be fully
completed and signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part
C and Part D must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they do
not have such: “If your profession or occupation requires official registration,
provide date and particulars of registration. Applicants must indicate the post
reference number on their applications. NB: Where Driver’s licence is
mandatory, exception will be granted for people with disabilities. Shortlisted
candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit certified
copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not older
than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
will be conducted as part of the Recruitment process. Candidates will be
subjected to Medical Surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and
Safety Act, Act 5/1993. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must furnish the
Department with an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for
ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the Department’s intention to promote
representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of these posts. Preference will be given to South African citizens.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/164 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (CHILD AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY) REF NO:
REFS/048559
Directorate: Clinical
This post is a joint appointment with the Department of Psychiatry, University
of Witwatersrand. The incumbent will be expected to participate in the teaching
program of the department and to provide training to a range of students and
healthcare workers. The incumbent must also be willing and able to provide
clinical services at other Child and Adolescent Units on the University of
Witwatersrand academic platform.
SALARY : R1 395 528 – R1 459 275 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Tara the H. Moross Centre, Sandton
REQUIREMENTS : A medical MBBCh or equivalent degree with an appropriate qualification in
psychiatry (FC Psych (SA), MMed (Psych) or equivalent qualification
recognised by the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA), which
allows registration as a specialist psychiatrist with the HPCSA. Current
registration with the HPCSA as an independent specialist psychiatrist. Sound
clinical knowledge and skills in psychiatry. Sound clinical knowledge and skills
in child psychiatry will be an added advantage. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary team. Ability to fulfill the required teaching and training
requirements. Knowledge of legislation, policies and procedures pertaining to
128
mental health care users. Adequate interpersonal skills as well as professional
and ethical conduct always.
DUTIES : Provide a direct clinical service and manage a child and/or adolescent
psychiatric inpatient or outpatient unit. The provision of care, treatment, and
rehabilitation to mental health care users within the framework of the Mental
Health Care Act (No 17 of 2002); involvement in other general psychiatry work
as needed. Provide outreach services to District Health Services and District/
Regional hospitals. Academically, to attend the Child and Adolescent
psychiatry teaching programme as per the department of Psychiatry at
University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) University, to achieve the logbook
requirements as determined by the Colleges of Medicine South Africa (CMSA)
to allow acceptance to the Certificate in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
examination. Teaching and training of medical students, medical officers and
psychiatry registrars, as well as other personnel (e.g. nurses, etc.). To
stimulate, assist with and conduct research relevant to the Gauteng
Department of Health and WITS Department of Psychiatry. To supervise and
manage junior staff, which would include disciplinary responsibilities, when
necessary. Administrative duties. Active participation in hospital management
committees. To assist with the development of policies and protocols of the
hospital. Active participation in quality improvement programs including clinical
audits, morbidity and mortality meetings and continuous professional
development activities. To liaise with external stakeholders when appropriate
and necessary. To always maintain professional and ethical conduct. To
perform overtime duties at Tara Hospital as per the call roster.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.A. Ngobeni ngobeni.mixo@gauteng.gov.za
Ms. S. Naidoo Sheryl.naidoo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 16/165 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9) REF NO: REFS/048561
Directorate: Nursing
SALARY : R1 201 302 – R1 373 562 per annum, (all-inclusive salary)
CENTRE : Tara the H. Moross Centre, Sandton
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R.425 qualification (i.e. diploma / degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as
a Professional Nurse. Diploma/ Degree in Nursing Administration or Health
Services Management of at least one-year duration and is registered as such
by the South African Nursing Council. Post basic qualification in Advanced
Psychiatry. A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/ recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a professional nurse with SANC in General
Nursing, of which 6 years must be in a Psychiatric hospital. At least 5 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable management
experience at Assistant Manager Nursing level. Must be computer literate and
have a valid driver’s license. Possess strong leadership, effective
communication and sound interpersonal skills are necessary. Excellent verbal
and written communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
independently and in a multidisciplinary context. Analytic thinking, independent
decision making and critical thinking skills.
DUTIES : Provide guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the division. Provide professional, technical and management
support for the provision of quality patient care through proper management of
nursing care programs. Advocate and ensure the promotion of nursing ethos
and professionalism. Develop and monitor the implementation of policies,
programmes, regulations, practices, procedures and standards pertaining to
nursing care. Utilize information technology and other management
information systems to manage nursing information for the enhancement of
service delivery. Establish, maintain and participate in inter-professional and
multi-disciplinary teamwork that promotes efficient and effective health care.
Manage and utilize resources in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation. Implement and control operational management of clinical and
support services in patient care areas. Oversee nursing workforce planning,
staffing levels and skills for optimal care. Ensure compliance with the relevant
legislation and implementation of Batho Pele Principles and Patients’ Rights
Charter. Coordinate nursing related research and development. Management
of nursing projects and participation in hospital projects aimed at enhancing
service delivery. Implementation of the National Strategic Direction for Nursing
and Midwifery Education and Practice 2020/21 – 2025/26. Lead and implement
the Guidelines for Clinical Nursing Education and Training Units in South Africa.
129
Implementation of the South African Nursing Council Nursing Practice
Standards for Use in all Health Establishments in South Africa. Provide
leadership in implementing the South African Nursing Council Continuing
Professional Development Framework for Nurses and Midwives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.A. Ngobeni ngobeni.mixo@gauteng.gov.za
Ms. S. Naidoo Sheryl.naidoo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 16/166 : MEDICAL OFFICER REF NO: REFS/048558 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Clinical
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 – R1 121 241 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
Grade 2: R1 188 255 – R1 297 089 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
Grade 3: R1 375 245 – R1 713 534 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Tara Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification which allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Medical Practitioner. An
interest in psychiatry and experience in psychiatry, as well as a Diploma in
Mental Health and/or an FC Psych (SA) Part I, will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Clinical assessment, history taking, mental status examination and physical
examination of psychiatric patients, formulation, development, and execution
of evidence-based and compassionate patient care plans. The application of
cost containment measures in service delivery is important. Assessment and
management of medical and psychiatric emergencies. Counselling and
education of patients and families. Proper clinical record keeping, including all
laboratory results. Preparation of referral letters and discharge summaries for
all patients. Participation in ward / departmental administrative duties. Teaching
of students. Commitment to the highest level of care, ethics, professionalism,
and punctuality. Work within a multi-disciplinary team and report all conflicts of
interest and corruption. Participation in outreach, academic and research
programs at any of the Gauteng Health facilities affiliated to the Department of
Psychiatry at the University of the Witwatersrand. Clinical and overtime duties
are performed at any of the Gauteng Health facilities affiliated with the
Department of Psychiatry at the University of Witwatersrand.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.A. Ngobeni ngobeni.mixo@gauteng.gov.za
Ms. S. Naidoo Sheryl.naidoo@gauteng.gov.za
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at:
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za site or https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/.
Z83 and updated CV must be attached.
CLOSING DATE : 01 June 2026 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The
Completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated CV
only specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well
as indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the interview date following
communication from HR. Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification,
and employment verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject
to a positive security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be
subjected to a security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo
a Competency Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS positions will be required to undergo two (2) technical tests
(technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical elements of the
130
job and the other Integrity (ethical) Conduct Assessment). Gauteng Provincial
Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise practical exercises / tests for non-
SMS positions and during the recruitment process (candidates who are
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not
to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment
process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83 which is
effective as of 01 January 2021. Applications must be submitted on a duly New
signed Z83 form, comprehensive CV, only shortlisted candidates will submit
certified documents. Pre-entry SMS certificate is compulsory for appointment.
To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please
click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course please visit the
NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/167 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: MUNICIPAL FINANCE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: REFS/048597
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive package) consists of 70% Basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration/ Accounting/
Economics. A master’s degree will be an added advantage. 8 years of
experience at a Senior Managerial level in Local Government Management.
SMS pre- entry certificate must be submitted prior to appointment. Drivers’
license.
DUTIES : To oversee effective and efficient management in Municipalities and Municipal
Entities and coordinate the provisioning of capacity building. Monitor, report on,
and promote municipal compliance with the Municipal Finance Management
Act (MFMA) through oversight assessments, training, and support within the
Local Government sphere in Gauteng. Oversee, support, and provide
guidance in the implementation of the Generally Recognised Accounting
Practice (GRAP) Standard, the Annual Financial System, and the Asset
Management. Oversee, engage, and advise municipalities towards sound and
sustainable operating and timely financial reporting by all the delegated
municipalities in Gauteng. Promote, encourage, and introduce vertical and
horizontal interface collaboration of the relevant intergovernmental relations
structures in local government in Gauteng. Management of the branch.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Robert Tsotetsi – email: robert.tsotetsi2@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : The position is earmarked to address employment equity in terms of female
appointments at Senior Management level.
POST 16/168 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: REFS/048599
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive package) consists of 70% Basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics or Finance. 5 years’
experience at a Senior Management level. Driver’s Licence. Public Service
SMS Pre-Entry certificate must be submitted prior to appointment.
DUTIES : To oversee, monitor and report on financial and non-financial performance in
provincial institutions. Oversee and manage Fiscal policy to inform the
development of a credible and transparent budget in line with the Gauteng
Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP). Manage and oversee monitoring
and reporting on expenditure. Oversee, monitor and review Compensation of
Employees Spending (COE) within provincial institutions. Oversee
Performance Management Reviews of Goods and Services aimed towards
outcomes, impact and value for money in terms of strategic resourcing.
Management of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Robert Tsotetsi – email: robert.tsotetsi2@gauteng.gov.za
131
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. Only online applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates who meet all the requirements of the post will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful. In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan,
preference will be given to Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females
candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 16/169 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: APPLICATIONS COUNTER REF NO:
REFS/048686
Branch: Transport
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Bachelors degree (NQF level 6/7) qualification in the
Transportation Management/Public Management/Administration
Management. 3 – 5 years’ experience in the public transport licensing or public
transport environment. 2 years’ experience must be at supervisory level.
Knowledge and skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures; relevant
legislation which include the NLTA, the NLTA Amendment Act and its
Regulations, the PFMA and its regulations and Public Service Regulations,
understanding of expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs. Knowledge
of GPG political and executive structures. Competency in Customer relations,
Stakeholder Relationship Management, Computer utilisation, Financial
Management, and Business Performance Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the receipt of applications for operating licenses from public transport
operators for the region. Check that the submitted applications have all the
required supporting documentation. Confirm that captured information on
applications and supporting documents is complete and accurate. Provide
information pertaining to the operating licensing cycle to stakeholders. Provide
public transport operators with the relevant information relating to public
transport operating licenses. Update relevant information on the systems
where necessary. Manage the verification of submitted applications manually
and through the relevant system(s). Confirm receipt and verification of
permits/operating license applications for all public passenger road transport.
Escalate applications suspected of having fraudulent documentation. Manage
records of all verified documentation. Adhere to all legislative frameworks
relating to processing of licenses. Liaise and consult with public transport
132
operators, commuters, and other government institutions. Participate in the
development of policies and standard operating procedures. Review and
update existing policies in response to regulatory changes and Public
Transport regulation. Monitor adherence to the implementation of policies.
Communicate the policy to relevant stakeholders, the business unit and the
department when required. To collate all relevant information, files and
documents from the Applications counter in the region. To ensure the proper
record keeping and control of all information, files and documents. Arrange for
the proper retrieval and storage of information, files and documents. Ensure
the proper maintenance of filing systems (electronic and manual). Ensure the
correct placement and safe keeping of information, files and documents.
Provide coaching, disciplinary and mentoring of staff to improve performance.
Monitor the performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance.
Manage resources to ensure effective service. Implement sound management
of human resources within the component. Perform daily supervision of the
section. Facilitate and encourage staff development to meet the changing
demands of the job. Support implementation of employee wellness program
and support where needed. Manage leave of sub-ordinates
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E. Mpateni Tel No: (011) 355 7252/ Ms. P Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 7175
For general enquiries please contact Human Resource on Tel No: (011) 355-
7521/7252.
133
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/170 : CHIEF DIRECTOR REF NO: G26/2026
Cluster: Information Technology: Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive SMS salary package, (All-
inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Information Technology. A
minimum of five (5) years experience at senior managerial level in Information
Technology. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s licence (Code 08). Computer
literacy in Microsoft Software applications. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies: The incumbent of this post will report to the Head of
Department Health and will be responsible to support the Head of Department
and Senior Management through the establishment of sound information
Management Systems and in the efficient and effective utilization of
Information and Information Technology as strategic resources to inform
planning, monitoring, evaluation and decision making processes. The ideal
candidate must: Possess extensive knowledge and expertise in the design and
development of Management Information System. Possess knowledge of
Computer Programming, Information Technology, Main frame applications and
Interfaces. Have the ability to operationalise Management Information System
imperatives of the Strategic and Annual Performance Plans of the Department
through innovative and highly complex information system that is user friendly.
Knowledge of information management and prescript. Have the ability to
capitalise on human potential and to develop information management
competencies at all organisational layers of the Department with a view to
improve reliability of data and the utilisation of data for planning, monitoring
and evaluation of programme and institutional performance. Have advance
project and Contract Management skills. Have advance skills in the application
of computer software packages (MS Office, Excel and Powerpoint). Have
excellent verbal communication and report writing skills. NB//: The incumbent
of this post will be required to possess the following skills: Risk Management
skills, Monitoring and Evaluation and Financial Management skills.
DUTIES : Develop and facilities the implementation of Intergrated Management,
Information Master Plan for the Department of Health to adequately support
the objectives of the Strategic and Service Transformation Plans of the
Department. Oversee the provisioning of fully compatible hardware and
software solutions for the Department inclusive of the management of the SLA
with SITA and user support services. Promote the utilisation of e-solutions in
the department and the development of IT skills within the department. Develop
Information Management Policies and maintain user and data security. Monitor
and evaluate on a continuous basis compliance with policy system standards
and norms. Represent the department at the GITO Council.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly
to the following email address:
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za NB//: The subject of your
email must be the post name that you are applying for. “Applicants may also
visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where
our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy
application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services KZN Department
of Health Private Bag X9051, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to:
330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower.
FOR ATTENTION : Miss L Mthalane
134
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted).
Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing
date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more than 1
post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for. Should you
not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. NB: For the Pre-Entry
Certificate for SMS, any individual may register for the course and complete
such in anticipation of wishing to apply for an SMS post in future. The course
is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and
the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior
to the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
OTHER POST
POST 16/171 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REF NO: G37/2026
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
Job Purpose: To plan, direct co-ordinate and manage the efficient and delivery
of clinical and administrative support services through working with the key
executive management team at the hospital within the legal and regulatory
framework, to represent the hospital authoritatively at provincial and public
forums, to provide strategic leadership to improve operational efficiency within
the health establishment to improve health outcomes.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), an all-inclusive MMS salary package
CENTRE : Umngeni Psychiartic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : A degree/advanced diploma in a health related field, registration with relevant
professional council. A degree/diploma in health management OR a
degree/advanced diploma in a management field. At least 5 (five) years
management experience in the health sector. Experience as a health service
manager or significant experience in management in a health service
environment. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). NB: All
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience
endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
Competencies: Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Competencies: Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation such as National
Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PMFA), Public Service Act and
related regulations and policies. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, financial management
135
change management people management and empowerment. Progress
Competencies: Service delivery innovation, knowledge management, problem
solving and analysis, communication, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the Hospital to ensure that it is
in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and district plans.
Financial Management: Maximise revenue through collection of all income due
to the Hospital, ensure that adequate policies, systems and procedure are in
place to enable prudent management of financial resources, planning of
financial resource mobilisation, monitoring and evaluation, asset and risk
management. Facility Management: Ensure business support and systems to
promote optimal management of the institution as well as optimal service
delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure planning
and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human Resource
Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource management
policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure effective and
efficient utilisation of human resources, promote a safe and healthy working
environment through compliance with relevant legislation including occupation
health and safety committees. Ensure continuous development and training of
personnel and implement monitoring and evaluation of performance.
Procurement and Management of Equipment and Supplies: Implement a
procurement and provisioning system that is fair, transparent, competitive and
cost effective in terms of provincial delegated authority and in line with the
PFMA, ensure that goods and services are procured in a cost effective timely
manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical governance to
ensure high standards of patient care, establish community networks and
report to the Hospital. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and
safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health
outcomes. Please note that the CEO will also be responsible for all Health
Services within the catchment are including PHC Clinics and Outreach
Services. Accelerate implementation of PHC re – engineering. Provide
overnight for reduction and management of the burden of disease for better
health outcomes. Achieve universal health courage, access to quality essential
medicines and vaccines for all KZN citizens.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.T Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: The District Manager: Harry Gwala
District Office: KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X502, Ixopo, 3969 OR
Hand delivered to: 111 Margaret Street, Ixopo, 3279. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address Headoffice.Jobapplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application
Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online
or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated
Online Application Centre’s (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Miss N.S Buthelezi Tel No: (033) 395 2896
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The appointments are subject to
positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). Applicants: Please
ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no late
136
applications will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit
separate applications for each post that you apply for quoting the relevant
reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Direct or hand deliver applications for all advertised posts to the address as
indicated below: Head Office: Department of Social Development, Private Bag
X9144, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver to 174 Mayors Walk Road,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR apply online using https://www.eservices.gov.za
(STHESHA WAYA WAYA).
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs. PN Mkhize
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be forwarded to the relevant address. Applications must
indicate the reference number of the post applied for and the Centre using a
new Z83 form (which must be completed in a manner that allows a selection
committee to assess the quality of the candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and the form must be signed noting the importance of the
declaration) which is effective from 01 January 2021 obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae. NB: Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
fully completed Z83 and a detailed curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the date
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action employer and is
committed to empowering people with disabilities. Appointment is subject to a
positive outcome obtained on the following checks (Security Clearance,
Citizenship, qualification verification, criminal records, credit records and
previous employment). The employment is subject to signing the employment
contract, annual performance agreement and to disclose financial interests in
accordance with relevant prescripts. Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela certificate) is required before the
appointment can be made. Enrolment for the course should be made on the
NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
preentryprogramme. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Failure to
comply with any of the above instructions will result in immediate
disqualification. If the applicant has not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date must accept that his / her application was not successful.
Regrettably due to excessive budget cuts the Department is not in a position
to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to the recruitment process
for the shortlisted candidates. It is regretted that due to large volumes of
applications anticipated to be received, it is not possible for the Department to
acknowledge receipt of the same and that only those applicants that participate
in the final selection processes (interviews) will be notified of the outcome. The
content of this circular must without delay be brought to the attention of all
potential applicants.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/172 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT:
ETHEKWINI CLUSTER REF NO: DSD01/05/2026HO
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : eThekwini Cluster
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 07) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker, Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker, A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 5 years of experience at senior
management in the social work environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the
137
Republic of South Africa, Social Welfare, Community Development, Child and
Youth Care Legislation, Policies, Norms and Standards and Programming,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Research Methodology,
Knowledge of policy analysis and development, Knowledge Management,
Organizational behaviour analysis, Strategic Business Management, National
Development Plan, Provincial Growth and Development Plan, Service Delivery
Frameworks, Employee Performance and Management Development System.
Skills/Core Competences: Strategic capability and leadership, People
management and empowerment, Financial management, Change
Management, Programme and Project Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication, Research, Presentation,
Facilitation, Language, Computer literacy, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide strategic coordination and facilitate the delivery of social welfare and
restorative services; Provide strategic coordination and facilitate the delivery of
children and families’ services; Provide strategic coordination and facilitate the
delivery of community development services; Ensure the provision of support
services to the district offices; Ensure the provision of support services to the
district offices; Ensure the development and implementation of policies;
Manage resources of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs GP Xaba- Makhetha Tel No: (033) 264 5576
POST 16/173 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION SERVICES AND STAKEHOLDER
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD02/05/2026HO
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 07) in Communication Science /
Journalism / Public Relations, A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 5 years
experience at a middle / senior management level in communication
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Research
Methodology, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Employee Performance Management and Development System, Service
Delivery Frameworks, Provincial Growth and Development Plan. Skills/ Core
Competences: Strategic capability and leadership, People management and
empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and project management, Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and
analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication, Research,
Presentation, Facilitation, Language, Computer literacy, Numeracy, Driving.
DUTIES : Manage internal and external communications; Manage marketing and
exhibition campaigns; Manage stakeholder and community liaison; Manage
the development and implementation of policies; Manage resources of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FMD Xaba Tel No: (033) 264 5401
POST 16/174 : DIRECTOR: OLDER PERSONS AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES REF
NO: DSD03/05/2026HO
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit Proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 5 years of experience at a
middle/ senior management level in the social work environment. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Social Welfare Legislation,
Policies, Norms and Standards including on Older Persons and Disability
Services. Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Knowledge of policy
analysis and development, Labour Relations Act, Welfare Laws, Research
Methodology, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Organizational behaviour analysis, Strategic business management,
Employee Performance Management and Development System. Skills / Core
Competences: Strategic capability and leadership, People management and
empowerment, Financial management, Change management, Programme
138
and project management, Knowledge management, Service delivery
innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Communication, Research, Presentation, Facilitation, Language, Policy
analysis, Driving, Computer literacy, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the provision of services to older persons; Manage and
facilitate the provision of services to persons with disabilities; Manage the
provision of capacity building; Manage the development and implementation of
policies; Manage resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RS Byroo Tel No: (033) 264 5621
POST 16/175 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE UTILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DSD04/05/2026HO
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Resource
Management/ Human Resource Development / Management of Training/
Public Management, A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
at a middle / senior managerial level in Human Resource Development
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Knowledge of policy analysis and
development, Labour Relations Act, Research Methodology, Public Finance
Management Act, PERSAL, Treasury Regulations, Basic Employment Act,
Service Delivery Framework, Employee Performance Management and
Development System. Skills/ Core Competences: Strategic capability and
leadership, People management and empowerment, Financial Management,
Change Management, Programme and Project Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication, Research, Presentation,
Facilitation, Language, Policy analysis, Driving, Computer literacy, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Manage the annual HRD implementation and skills development plans;
Manage the provision of training and development, performance management
and bursaries; Manage the provision of professional development services;
Manage the development and implementation of policies; Manage resources
of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VW Gumede Tel No: (033) 341 3579
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/176 : SERVICE OFFICE MANAGER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : uMzimkhulu Service Office: Harry Gwala District Ref No:
DSD06/05/2026uMzimkhulu
Bhamshela Service Office: iLembe District Ref No: DSD07/05/2026Bhamshela
Emnambithi Service Office: uThukela District Ref No:
DSD08/05/2026Emnambithi
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 3 years junior managerial
experience in social services environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Social Welfare and Community Development
Legislation, Policies, Norms and Standards, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Organizational behaviour analysis, Strategic business management,
Employee Performance and Management Legislation pertaining to Social
Welfare Service Delivery, Understanding of SASSA functions, Social dynamics
of KwaZulu- Natal communities, knowledge of HR Management, Labou
Relations Act, Service Delivery Frameworks, Public Participation, Community
Outreach, EPMDS. Skills: Communication, Interpersonal Relations, Report
Writing, Financial Management, Change Management, Time management,
Project Management, Leadership, Diversity management, Decision Making,
Counselling, Service Delivery Innovation, Client orientation and client focus,
presentation and facilitation, problem solving and analysis, conflict resolution,
Driving, interviewing, computer literacy, numeracy and language skill.
139
DUTIES : Provide Social Welfare Services; Provide Community Development Services;
Ensure the provision of corporate support services; Ensure the implementation
of Departmental policies and other relevant legislation in the day-to-day
running of the component; Manage resources of the Service Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TN Nkosi: uMzimkhulu Service Office Tel No: (039) 259 7027
Ms SH Mfeka: Bhamshela Service Office Tel No: (031) 336 8727
Ms NP Mhlongo: Emnambithi Service Office Tel No: (033) 634 6600
POST 16/177 : FACILITY MANAGER: KHUSELEKA ONE STOP CENTRE REF NO:
DSD05/05/2026KHUSELEKA
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Khuseleka One Stop Centre: eThekwini South District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions. Only Shortlisted
candidates will submit proof of current registration with the South African
Council for Social Services Professions. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of
3 years junior managerial experience in social services environment.
Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Social Welfare
Legislation, Policies, Norms and Standards including on Gender Based
Violence and Femicide, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury regulations, Welfare Laws, Understanding
of SASSA functions, Social dynamics of KwaZulu-Natal communities,
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Labour Relations Act, Service
delivery frameworks, Public participation, Community outreach, Employee
Performance Management and Development System. Skills: Communication,
Interpersonal relations, Report writing, Financial management, Change
management, Time management, Project management, Leadership, Diversity
management, Decision Making, Counselling, Service delivery innovation,
Client orientation and customer focus, Presentation, Facilitation, Problem
Solving and analysis, Conflict Resolution, Driving, Interviewing, Computer
literacy, Numeracy, Language.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of developmental social welfare services; Manage care
and support services; Provide skills development services; Manage
paramedical and support services; Ensure effective & efficient provision of
corporate support services; Provide advice, guidance and input to policies;
Provide leadership and strategic direction to the Office of the HOD and input to
the Department Strategy; Manage resources of the Facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NC Gebashe Tel No: (031) 336 8776
POST 16/178 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DISCIPLINARY/MISCONDUCT REF NO:
DSD09/05/2026HO
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/ Public Administration/ Labour Relations/ Industrial Relations/
Labour Law, A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 3 years administrative
experience in Labour Relations environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Public Administration Justice Act,
Public Financial Management Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, PSCBC/ PHWSBC Resolutions, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, Employee Performance Management and Development System.
Skills: Communication, Labour Relations models, Organization, Analytical
thinking, Research, Interpersonal relations, Project management, Problem
solving, Computer literacy, Numeracy, Language, Driving.
DUTIES : Facilitate and handle disciplinary cases; Investigate and preside in misconduct
proceedings; Collect and keep statistics on misconduct and disputes; Maintain
an electronic database of disciplinary cases; Provide advice and guidance and
input to policy; Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RM Madlala Tel No: (033) 264 2020
POST 16/179 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R471 330 per annum
CENTRE : Phoenix service Office Ref No: DSD10/05/2026Phoenix (X1 Post)
140
Mandeni Service Office Ref No: DSD11/05/2026Mandeni (X1 Post)
Pietermaritzburg Service Office Ref No: DSD12/05/2026Pietermaritzburg (X1
Post)
Umngeni Service Office Ref No: DSD13/05/2026Umngeni (X1 Post)
uMshwathi Service Office Ref No: DSD14/05/2026uMshwathi (X1 Post)
KwaSani Service Office Ref No: DSD15/05/2026KwaSani (X1 Post)
Ezingolweni Service Office Ref No: DSD16/05/2026Ezingolweni (X1 Post)
Bergville Service Office Ref No: DSD17/05/2026Bergville (X1 Post)
eMadlangeni Service Office Ref No: DSD18/05/2026Madlangeni (X1 Post)
Ingwavuma Service Office Ref No: DSD19/05/2026Ingwavuma (X1 Post)
Ongoye Service Office Ref No: DSD20/05/2026Ongoye (X1 Post)
Melmoth Service Office Ref No: DSD21/05/2026Melmoth (X1 Post)
Umfolozi Service Office Ref No: DSD22/05/2026Umfolozi (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Community
Development/Development Studies/Social Science, A valid driver’s license. A
minimum of 7 years recognizable experience in Community Development after
obtaining the required qualification. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations , Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations , Basic Conditions of Employment Act
, Batho-Pele principles ,Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour
and social system and legislation to assist with interventions at the point where
people interact with their environments in order to promote self-empowerments
, Ability and competence to coordinate community development structures ,
Understanding of social dynamics of communities , Employee Performance
Management and Development System. Skills: Planning and organizing,
Communication (verbal and written), Financial management, Interpersonal,
Presentation, Monitoring and evaluation, People management, Project
management, Research and report writing, Problem solving, Computer literacy,
Numeracy, Language, Driving.
DUTIES : Supervise the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
community development interventions in partnership with the community and
other relevant stakeholders and to assist employees engaged in this function
by resolving problems; Supervise and support community development
practitioners to ensure that there are communication and co-ordination with all
relevant role players, internal and external (e.g. in Departments/Provinces,
NGO’s, local community structures and faith-based organizations) to facilitate
intersectional collaboration, integrated planning and the establishment of
partnerships to ensure sustainability of development activities within the
community; Supervise and guide community development practitioners to
enhance their performance on community development and to perform
administrative support on community development and related activities; Keep
up to date with new developments in community development field to enhance
service delivery; Supervise and advise community development practitioners
to ensure an efficient and effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Gebashe: Phoenix service Office Tel No: (031) 3368787
Ms SH Mfeka: Mandeni Service Office Tel No: (031) 336 8727
Ms NR Nala: Pietermaritzburg; Umngeni & uMshwathi Service Offices Tel No:
(033) 341 7903
Ms TN Nkosi: KwaSani Service Office Tel No: (039) 259 7027
Ms TFP Khuzwayo: Ezingolweni Service Office Tel No: (039) 682 7506
Ms NP Mhlongo: Bergville Service Office Tel No: (036) 634 6600
Ms ZB Mdlalose: eMadlangeni Service Office Tel No: (034) 317 1254
Ms NHP Khanyile: Ingwavuma Service Office Tel No: (035) 874 8506
Ms NW Dludla: Ongoye, Umfolozi and Melmoth Service Offices Tel No: (035)
794 5018
POST 16/180 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER: CRIME PREVENTION AND
SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: DSD23/05/2026HO
SALARY : Grade1: R471 330 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit Proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 8 years appropriate experience
in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with SACSSP. Knowledge:
141
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Professional Counselling, Research Methodology, Service Delivery
Frameworks, Policy development and analysis, Ability to compile complex
reports. Skills: Communication, Interpersonal relations, Report writing,
Financial management, Change management, Policy development, Planning
and Organizing, Research, Programme and Project management,
Counselling, Presentation, Facilitation, Monitoring and Evaluation, People`s
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Driving, Networking, Computer
literacy, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Keep up to date with new developments in the crime prevention and support
services; Conduct research and development; Develop, implement and
maintain crime prevention and support policies; Perform all the administrative
functions required in crime prevention and support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PK Chetty Tel No: (033) 264 2011
POST 16/181 : CORPORATE SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: DSD25/05/2026UMDONI
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : uMdoni Service Office: uGu District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Public Administration/ Public
Management. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 3 years administrative
experience at supervisory level. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations , Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Employee Performance Management
and Development System , Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Supply Chain
Management Practices and procedures, Service delivery frameworks ,
Occupational Health and Safety, Labour Relations Act , Knowledge of Batho-
Pele Principles , Road Traffic Act , Archives Act. Skills: Interpersonal,
Networking, Problem solving, Driving, Time management, Communication,
Financial Management, Decision making, Report writing, Numeracy, Computer
literacy, Language, Supervisory.
DUTIES : Provide Human resources management services; Monitor financial services;
Provide fleet management services; Provide registry services; Provide staff
supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Govender Tel No: (039) 682 7506
POST 16/182 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: DISTRICTS (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : iLembe District Ref No: DSD26/05/2026iLembe (X1 Post)
Harry Gwala District Ref No: DSD27/05/2026Harry Gwala (X1 Post)
uGu District Ref No: DSD28/05/2026uGu (X1 Post)
uThukela District Ref No: DSD29/05/2026uThukela (X1 Post)
Amajuba District Ref No: DSD30/05/2026Amajuba (X1 Post)
uMkhanyakude District Ref No: DSD31/05/2026uMkhanyakude (X1 Post)
Zululand District Ref No: DSD32/05/2026Zululand (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Financial
Management/Accounting. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 1 year of
administrative experience in Financial Management field. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations, Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Labour Relations Act, PERSAL, Employee
Performance Management Development System, National and Provincial
Treasury practice notes. Skills: Computer literacy, Report writing, Problem
solving, Analytical, Interpersonal relations, Planning and organizing,
Communication, Financial management, Driving, Numeracy/accounting.
DUTIES : Coordinate management accounting services; Coordinate financial accounting
services; Facilitate transfer payments; Facilitate physical facilities
management services; Supervise and provide guidance to personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Singh: iLembe District Tel No: (031) 336 8727
Ms TW Gazu: Harry Gwala District Tel No: (039) 259 7027
Mr S Govender: uGu District Tel No: (039) 682 7506
Mr PP Ndaba: uThukela District Tel No: (036) 636 1000
Ms NY Mthembu: Amajuba District Tel No: (017) 735 3822
Ms SS Mngomezulu: uMkhanyakude District Tel No: (035) 571 1000
Ms NF Ntombela: Zululand District Tel No: (035) 874 4561
142
POST 16/183 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY DEVELOPER: YOUTH AND
WOMAN DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD24/05/2026HO
SALARY : Grade 1: R403 635 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Community Development/
Development studies. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 8 years’
experience in Community Development after obtaining the required
qualification. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Pubic Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Research Methodology, Service Delivery Frameworks,
Youth Development Policy, National Youth Development Agency Act, National
Development Plan, Provincial Growth and Development Plan, Public
participation, Community development, Project Management Principles, Skills:
Communication, Interpersonal relations, Project Management, Organizational,
Report writing, Analytical thinking, Policy analysis and development, Financial
management, Presentation, Facilitation, Research, Language, Computer
literacy, Numeracy, Driving.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain youth and women development policies;
Conduct research and development; Keep up to date with new developments
in the youth and women development field; Perform the administrative
functions required in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Makhwasa Tel No: (033) 264 2173
POST 16/184 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ORGANIZATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT
SERVICES REF NO: DSD33/05/2026HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Risk Management/Internal
Auditing /Financial Management / Financial Accounting. A valid driver’s license.
A minimum of 1 year of clerical experience in the internal audit or risk
management environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Financial Disclosure Framework,
Public Sector Risk Management Framework, Prevention and Protection of
Criminal Activities Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Skills: Communication, Interpersonal relations,
Planning and organizing, Analytical thinking, Presentation, Time management,
Problem solving, Financial management, Language, Numeracy, Computer,
Driving.
DUTIES : Provide risk assessment sessions and keep documents during the process of
risk assessments; Compile and update risk register; co-ordinate and follow-up
on responses to action plans as indicated on the risk register; Co-ordinate risk
and fraud awareness campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SP Nxumalo Tel No: (033) 348 5573
POST 16/185 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL REPORTING AND INTERNAL
CONTROL REF NO: DSD34/05/2026HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Accounting/Management
Accounting/ Finance/Auditing. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 1 year of
administrative experience in Accounting, Management Accounting,
Finance/Auditing. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Regulations, Basic Accounting System, National Treasury
Instruction Notes, Provincial Treasury Practice Notes, Service Delivery
frameworks. Skills: Computer literacy, Report writing, Problem solving,
Analytical, Planning and organizing, Communication, Policy Development,
Auditing procedures, Driving, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Undertake a financial reporting service; Provide input and assistance in the
submission of Annual Financial Statements to the Auditor-General and
Provincial Treasury; Conduct relevant training on financial procedures; Ensure
safekeeping of documents.
143
ENQUIRIES : Ms TNP Mbhele Tel No: (033) 264 5403
POST 16/186 : SERVER ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: DSD35/05/2026HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information Technology /
Computer Science / Certified Novel Engineer / Microsoft Certified System
Engineer. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 2 years of experience in
technical field. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Regulations, In-
depth knowledge of Computer Software, In- depth knowledge of operating
systems and computer languages, Service delivery framework, Departmental
business processes. Skills: Communication, Project management, Decision
making, Planning, Organizing, Interpersonal relations, Facilitation, Computer,
Numeracy, Language, Driving.
DUTIES : Ensure availability of client/ server applications; Configure all new server
implementations; Develop processes and procedures for the management
server; Oversee the physical security, integrity and safety of the data center/
server.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VN Nyathikazi Tel No: (033) 264 2216
POST 16/187 : IT SUPPORT TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: DSD36/05/2026HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information Technology /
Computer Science / Information Systems. A valid driver’s license. A minimum
of 2 years of experience in Information Technology field. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, In- depth knowledge of
Computer Software, In- depth knowledge of operating systems and computer
languages, Service delivery framework, Departmental business processes,
Employee Performance Management and Development System. Skills:
Communication, Project management, Problem solving, Decision making,
Planning, Organizing, Interpersonal relations, Facilitation, Computer,
Numeracy, Language, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide network server and desktop support services; Provide End-Users
support (including fault resolution); Install and maintain software and hardware;
Facilitate access to management information system; Monitor help desk
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VN Nyathikazi Tel No: (033) 264 2216
POST 16/188 : IT SPECIALIST REF NO: DSD37/05/2026ETHEKWINI SOUTH
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : eThekwini South District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information Technology /
Computer Science / Information Systems. A valid driver’s license. A minimum
of 2 years of experience in Information Technology field. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, In- depth knowledge of
Computer Software, In- depth knowledge of operating systems and computer
languages, Service delivery framework, Departmental business processes,
Employee Performance Management and Development System. Skills:
Communication, Project management, Problem solving, Decision making,
Planning, Organizing, Interpersonal relations, Facilitation, Computer,
Numeracy, Language, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide network server and desktop support services; Provide End-Users
support (including fault resolution); Install and maintain software and hardware;
Facilitate access to management information system; Monitor help desk
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TN Ndlovu Tel No: (031) 336 8705
144
POST 16/189 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
REF NO: DSD38/05/2026HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/Personnel Management/ Public Management/ Public
Administration. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 3 years of clerical
experience in Human Resource environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
PERSAL, Collective agreements, Employee Performance Management and
Development System. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills:
Communication, Interpersonal relations, Teamwork, Computer literacy,
Planning, Organizing, Language, Numeracy, Driving.
DUTIES : Undertake the implementation of recruitment and selection; Undertake the
implementation of appointments; Administer movement of personnel; Provide
Human Resource Registry services; Supervise Human Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs PN Mkhize Tel No: (033) 264 2079
POST 16/190 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO:
DSD39/05/2026HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/Public Management/ Public Administration. A valid driver’s
license. A minimum of 3 years administrative experience in Human Resource
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Financial Management Act,
Republic of South Africa Constitution, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair
Discrimination, Employee Performance Management and Development
System. Promotion of Access to information Act, Collective Agreement. Skills:
Analytical thinking, Project management, Financial management, People
management, Problem solving, Communication, Interpersonal relations,
Facilitation, Presentation, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide leave of absence; Process allowances and deductions; Implement
termination of services; Supervise human resource.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ranjith Tel No: (033) 264 2021
POST 16/191 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DSD40/05/2026HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management / Human Resource Development / Public Administration / Public
Management. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 3 years clerical experience
in Human Resource environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Financial
Management Act, PERSAL, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair
Discrimination, Employee Performance Management and Development
System, Promotion of Access to information Act, Collective Agreement. Skills:
Analytical thinking, Project management, Financial management, People
management, Problem solving, Communication, Interpersonal relations,
Facilitation, Presentation, Driving.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of Employee Performance Management and capacity
development; Provide support in the implementation of Performance
Management and Development System for Salary Level 1-12 employees and
SMS Members; Assist in the provision secretariat services at Committee
Meetings (DMC/Appeals); Coordinate the implementation of Competency
Based Assessment for the development of SMS members.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CM Ndlovu Tel No: (033) 264 2208
145
POST 16/192 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: DISTRICTS (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Cetshwayo District Ref No: DSD41/05/2026King Cetshwayo (X1 Post)
iLembe District Ref No: DSD42/05/2026iLembe (X1 Post)
Harry Gwala District Ref No: DSD43/05/2026Harry Gwala (X1 Post)
uGu District Ref No: DSD44/05/2026uGu (X2 Posts)
uThukela District Ref No: DSD45/05/2026uThukela (X1 Post)
uMzinyathi District Ref No: DSD46/05/2026uMzinyathi (X1 Post)
Amajuba District Ref No: DSD47/05/2026Amajuba (X1 Post)
uMkhanyakude District Ref No: DSD48/05/2026uMkhanyakude (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management / Public Administration / Public Management. A valid driver’s
license. A minimum of 3 years of clerical experience in Human Resource
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
PERSAL, Collective agreements, Departmental/Provincial Policies, Human
resource management practices and procedures, Employee Performance
Management and Development System. Skills: Problem solving,
Communication, Time management, Report writing, Listening, Excellent writing
skills, Analytical; creative and innovative thinking, Interpersonal, Planning and
Organizing, Computer, Language, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide human resource administration practices concerning service
conditions; Provide human administration practices concerning human
resource provisioning; Provide human resource development; Provide labour
relations services; Provide PERSAL support services; Prepare reports on
personnel administration issues and statistics; Supervise and provide guidance
to staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MT Mngomezulu: King Cetshwayo Tel No: (035) 794 5418
Ms R Singh: iLembe District Tel No: (031) 336 8727
Ms TW Gazu: Harry Gwala District Tel No: (039) 259 7027
Mr S Govender: uGu District Tel No: (039) 259 7027
Mr PP Ndaba: uThukela District Tel No: (036) 636 1000
Mr CM Ndaba: uMzinyathi District Tel No: (034) 212 2990
Ms NY Mthembu: Amajuba District Tel No: (017) 735 3822
Ms SS Mngomezulu: uMkhanyakude District Tel No: (035) 571 1000
POST 16/193 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO:
DSD49/05/2026HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) /Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level
7) in Public Management / Public Administration / Social Sciences. A valid
driver licence. A minimum of 3 years’ clerical experience. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; Working knowledge of public
service; Public Service Act; Public Service Regulations. Skills: Communication;
Listening; Analytical thinking; Interpersonal relations; Organising; Driving.
DUTIES : Provides administrative support services; Provide a secretariat function and
establish, implement and maintain an efficient and effective filing system;
Procure goods and services; Promote sound working relationships between
the Office of the HoD and other stakeholders; Provide supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 5402/06
POST 16/194 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER: QUALITY OF
WORK LIFE REF NO: DSD50/05/2026HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Social Work/ Psychology.
Registration with the South African Council for Social Services as a Social
Worker or with the Health Professions Council as a Psychologist, Only
Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of Current Registration with the South
African Council for Social Services as a Social Worker or with the Health
Professions Council as a Psychologist, A valid driver’s license. A minimum of
1-year administrative experience in Employee Health and Wellness
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
146
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Treasury
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Employee Performance Management and Development
System, Collective Agreements, Service Delivery Frameworks, Employee
Health and Wellness Programmes, Employment Equity Act. Skills:
Communication, Report writing, Computer literacy, Time Management, Project
Management, Financial Management, People management, Interpersonal
relations, Counselling, Planning, Organizing, Problem Solving, Numeracy,
Driving.
DUTIES : Implement Wellness Management Programme; Attend to referral cases and
maintain confidential records for employees; Provide advisory services to line
managers on Wellness Management Programme matters; Provide
psychosocial, emotional and spiritual wellbeing of employees; Provide
administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VW Gumede Tel No: (033) 341 3579
POST 16/195 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER: OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH REF NO: DSD51/05/2026HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in General
Nursing/Occupational Health and Safety. Registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC)/South African Institute of Occupational Safety and
Health (SAIOSHA). Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) / South African
Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (SAIOSHA). A valid Driver’s
license. A minimum of 1 year of experience in Employee Health and Wellness
environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Treasury
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Employee Performance Management and Development
System, Collective, Agreements, Service Delivery Frameworks, Employee
Health and Wellness Programmes, Employment Equity Act. Skills:
Communication, Report writing, Computer literacy, Time Management, Project
Management, Financial Management, People management, Interpersonal
relations, Counselling, Planning, Organizing, Problem Solving, Driving.
DUTIES : Implement HIV/AIDS and TB workplace programmes; Facilitate health and
productivity management programmes; Provide occupational health and safety
services; Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VW Gumede Tel No: (033) 341 3579
POST 16/196 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : DDG: Community Development & Institutional Coordination Ref No:
DSD52/05/20256DDG
Chief Director: Corporate Services Ref No: DSD53/05/2026Corporate
Director: Youth & Women Development Ref No: DSD54/05/2026Youth
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Office Management/
Management Assistant/ Public Administration/ Public Management/ Business
Management. A minimum of 3 years secretariat experience in rendering
support services to senior management. Knowledge: Knowledge on the
relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures, Basic knowledge on
financial administration. Skills: Language, Good telephone etiquette, Computer
literacy, Sound organizational behaviour, Communication (verbal & written),
Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the Senior Management;
Provide administrative support services; Provide support to the Senior
Management regarding meetings; Support the Senior Manager with the
administration of the budget; Study the relevant Public Service and
Departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs GP Xaba - Makhetha Tel No: (033) 264 5576
Mr VW Gumede Tel No: (033) 341 3579
Mr X Makhwasa Tel No: (033) 264 2173
147
POST 16/197 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: PRINCESS MKABAYI CYCC REF NO:
DSD55/05/2026PRINCESS MKABAYI
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
CENTRE : Princess Mkabayi CYCC: uMzinyathi District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Nursing. Registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Only
shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations as amended, Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures,
nursing statutes and other relevant legal frameworks, Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patients’ rights Charter, Batho-Pele
principles, Labour Relations Act, Employee Performance Management and
Development System. Skills: Communication, Interpersonal relations, Report
writing, Facilitation, Presentation, Problem solving, Analytical thinking, Self-
disciplined, Organizing, Computer literacy, Numeracy, Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical/quality patient care); Implement standards, practices, criteria and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practices); Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to Nursing and
Health Care; Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders; Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RZ Sibisi Tel No: (034) 299 7578
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted to: The Director, KwaZulu-Natal Department of
Sport, Arts and Culture, Private Bag X9140, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand
delivered to: Department of Sport, Arts and Culture, 171 Boshoff Street,
Pietermaritzburg and marked for the attention of Mrs NIS Mbhele/ Ms P
Mthembu. Moreover, applicants are also encouraged to apply for posts through
the online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit
their Z83 and CV directly to the following email address
recruitment@kzndsac.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applicants using the manual application process must
ensure that the new Z83 application form (obtainable from any Public Service
institution) is completed, duly signed and initiated as failure to do so may lead
to disqualification of the application during the selection process. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources. Applicants are
discouraged from sending applications through registered mail because the
Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these applications. No
late applications will be accepted. Applications submitted electronically will be
taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented in any
way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to comply with the above instructions
will result in the disqualification of your application. Further, all shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Further, shortlisted SMS candidates shall undergo a
competency assessment prior to being recommended for appointment by the
executive authority. Moreover, SMS candidates recommended for appointment
will be required to produce a Pre-entry Certificate for the course offered by the
National School of Government (NSG) prior to their appointment. The course
is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into and the full
details can be obtained by following the link:
148
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme. The
KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates
from designated groups in terms of Employment Equity Act, 1998. The
Department reserves the right not to make these appointments.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/198 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSAC01/2026
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive package to be structured
in accordance with the rules of Senior Management Service [SMS])
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus an appropriate bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in
Accounting/ Finance or relevant qualification, coupled with a minimum of five
(5) years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level (SMS). The pre-entry
certificate for the Senior Management Services (SMS) from the National
School of Governance is compulsory prior to the appointment. Valid code 8/EB
driver’s license. Knowledge: Good understanding of Public Service
Legislation and prescripts applicable to Government, including systems and
procedures. Project Management principles. Sound knowledge of relevant
legislation such as the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, etc. Knowledge of
relevant financial systems such as PERSAL and BAS, etc. Experience in
Strategic Planning and Financial Management. Skills: Good negotiation and
conflict resolution skills. Critical analysis, research, analytical and project
management skills. Ability to work independently yet function optimally as part
of a dynamic and multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Manage the budgeting and financial management functions. Develop and
implement appropriate financial management policies, guidelines and
procedures. Provide advice to the Accounting Officer on financial management.
Manage the Supply Chain Management function. Develop and maintain
internal control systems. Provide financial reports as required by Provincial
Treasury. Ensure financial targets and budgets are consistent with the strategic
plan. Manage fixed assets of the Department. Supervise, develop and manage
employees’ performance in accordance with the Employee Performance
Management and Development System (EPMDS).
ENQUIRIES : Dr CT Sifunda Tel No. (033) 264 3400
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/199 : CULTURAL OFFICER: ZULULAND DISTRICT OFFICE REF NO:
DSAC02/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ulundi
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus bachelor’s degree/National Diploma (NQF6) in
Fine Arts, Arts and Drama, Creative Arts or relevant qualification, coupled with
a minimum of one (1) year relevant experience. Valid code 8/EB driver’s
license. Knowledge: Public Service Regulations and prescripts. Cultural
Legislations. PFMA and SCM policies and regulations. Project management.
Knowledge of the relevant prescript governing the Government. Clean criminal
records. Basic knowledge of financial administration. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting. Records management. Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Research and analytical skills. Negotiation/ Consultation skills.
Resource management skills. Presentation skills. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Implement and develop programmes for the creative industry (visual and
performing) as well as business developmental programmes for artists.
Undertake the implementation social cohesion programmes, moral
regeneration, indigenous knowledge system and culture advancement
programmes. Support all arts and culture structures. Undertake the
implementation of programmes in arts and culture organizations and cultural
institutions. Render administrative functions in relation to programmes that are
implemented.
149
ENQUIRIES : Ms BPN Dludla at 064 616 1471
POST 16/200 : ARCHIVIST: DURBAN ARCHIVES - REPOSITORY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DSAC03/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus bachelor’s degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Records Management or relevant qualification, coupled with one (1) year
relevant experience in records management. Valid code 8/EB driver’s license.
Knowledge: All relevant archival prescripts. Public Service Act. Batho Pele
Principles. EPMDS and PFMA. Skills: Analytical skills. Project management
skills. Research and Presentation skills. Project management skills. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Creation of finding aids. Good
communication (written and verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Process enquiries and provide support and advise archivalia in the reading
room. Create finding aids. Collection Management. Public programming.
Preserve and digitize records in according to the procedure manual.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RB Singh Tel No: (031) 309 5681
POST 16/201 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER-DEMAND AND ACQUISITION
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSAC04/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus National Diploma (NQF 6) in Financial Management
or relevant qualification, coupled with a minimum of two (2) year relevant
experience in Finance Management. Valid code 8/EB driver’s license.
Knowledge: Public Service Act and Regulations, PFMA, Departmental policies,
objectives and business processes, Management reporting, SCM Procedures,
Human Resource Management. Skills: Ability to multi-task. Ability to work
independently. Problem solving, Tact and diplomacy, Project management
skills, Policy analysis and development, Motivational, Negotiation, Conflict
management, Strategy management and policy formulation, Labour Relations,
Programme management, Report writing, financial management. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good Communication (verbal and
written) skills.
DUTIES : Ensure time-consuming procurement of goods and services. Assist with the
consolidation and capturing of Procurement plan. Authorize commitments on
BAS. Attend bid/quotations briefing sessions. Provide secretariat functions for
BSC committee. Supervise, develop and manage employees’ performance in
accordance with the Employee Performance Management and Development
System (EPMDS
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mazibuko Tel No: (033) 264 3400
POST 16/202 : RECREATION PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR:
HARRY GWALA DISTRICT OFFICE REF NO: DSAC05/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bulwer
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus bachelor’s degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Sport Management/Science or relevant qualification, coupled with a minimum
of one (1) year relevant experience. Valid code 8 driver’s license. Knowledge:
Relevant legislatives, Regulations and Policy Framework, Computer
operation / office automation, Departmental objectives, Departmental
business processes service delivery and Service Level Agreements, PFMA,
Departmental policies, Project management, Sport Management/Sport
Science, National and Provincial sport and recreation strategies. Skills:
Stakeholders Relations, Coaching and mentoring, Facilitation, Analytical
Methods and techniques, good organizing, and planning. Problem solving.
Good interpersonal relations, Programme management, Report writing,
Leadership, Financial management. Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate the formation of recreation structures at district,
wards, and local levels in collaboration with relevant stakeholders. Coordinate
departmental programme activities at districts, wards and local levels for
development of recreation. Facilitate, co-ordinate and monitor the effective
150
implementation of Departmental policies throughout the programmes. Render
project management and administrative functions towards implemented
programmes. Ensure collection, compilation and updating of data in all
programme activities at wards to district levels. Provide effective utilization of
resources and supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Harry Gwala: Ms T Mahlobo Tel No: (039) 834 5300
POST 16/203 : RECREATION PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR:
ZULULAND DISTRICT OFFICE REF NO: DSAC06/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ulundi
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate plus bachelor’s degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Sport Management/Science or relevant qualification, coupled with a minimum
of one (1) year relevant experience. Valid code 8 driver’s license. Knowledge:
Relevant legislatives, Regulations and Policy Framework, Computer
operation / office automation, Departmental objectives, Departmental
business processes service delivery and Service Level Agreements, PFMA,
Departmental policies, Project management, Sport Management/Sport
Science, National and Provincial sport and recreation strategies. Skills:
Stakeholders Relations, Coaching and mentoring, Facilitation, Analytical
Methods and techniques, good organizing, and planning. Problem solving.
Good interpersonal relations, Programme management, Report writing,
Leadership, Financial management. Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate the formation of recreation structures at district,
wards, and local levels in collaboration with relevant stakeholders. Coordinate
departmental programme activities at districts, wards and local levels for
development of recreation. Facilitate, co-ordinate and monitor the effective
implementation of Departmental policies throughout the programmes. Render
project management and administrative functions towards implemented
programmes. Ensure collection, compilation and updating of data in all
programme activities at wards to district levels. Provide effective utilization of
resources and supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Zululand: Ms BA Thabethe at 082 430 6782
POST 16/204 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR- CULTURE DEVELOPMENT:
ADMIN SUPPORT REF NO: DSAC08/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate plus bachelor’s degree/ National Diploma in Public
Management or relevant qualification, coupled with a minimum of three (3)
years relevant experience. Valid code 8 /EB driver’s license. Knowledge:
Public Service Regulations and prescripts. Cultural Legislations. PFMA and
SCM policies and regulations. Project management. Knowledge of the
relevant prescript governing the Government. Clean criminal records. Basic
knowledge of financial administration. Knowledge and Understanding of
Accounting. Records management. Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Good office
administration, planning and organizational skills. Good Organizational and
Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and Intrapersonal Skills. Computer
literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc). Good communication (written &
verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient office management to the Directorate, which
includes systems for receiving and distributing correspondence. Render
effective administration support for the Directorate which includes HR, Finance
and Transport etc. Render effective and efficient records management within
the Directorate. Provide support regarding all logistics requirements within the
Directorate. Coordination and analysis of monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Verrimaak Tel No: (033) 341 3600
POST 16/205 : ADMIN CLERK: CORPORATE SERVICES UNIT: EASTERN DISTRICTS
CLUSTER REF NO: DSAC09/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Durban
151
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Valid Code 08/EB Driver’s
License. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial administration. Relevant
legislation / Policies / prescripts and procedures. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting Methods, Principles and Procedures. Skills:
Good Organizational and Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and
Intrapersonal Skills. Telephonic Etiquette skil10ls. Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical
support services within the Component. Provide personnel administration and
clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Durban: Ms HC Gumede at 063 8084995
POST 16/206 : ADMIN CLERK: DUNDEE DEPOT: WESTERN DISTRICTS CLUSTER REF
NO: DSAC10/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Dundee
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Valid Code 08/EB Driver’s
License. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial administration. Relevant
legislation / Policies / prescripts and procedures. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting Methods, Principles and Procedures. Skills:
Good Organizational and Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and
Intrapersonal Skills. Telephonic Etiquette skil10ls. Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical
support services within the Component. Provide personnel administration and
clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dundee Library: Ms BM Sadaw Tel No: (034) 212 2459
POST 16/207 : ADMIN CLERK: ARCHIVES REPOSITORY MANAGEMENT: SOUTHERN
DISTRICTS CLUSTER REF NO: DSAC11/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Valid Code 08/EB Driver’s
License. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial administration. Relevant
legislation / Policies / prescripts and procedures. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting Methods, Principles and Procedures. Skills:
Good Organizational and Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and
Intrapersonal Skills. Telephonic Etiquette skil10ls. Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical
support services within the Component. Provide personnel administration and
clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Pietermaritzburg Archives Repository: Ince Edgar Tel No: (033) 342 4713
POST 16/208 : ADMIN CLERK: MIDLANDS LIBRARY DEPOT-SOUTHERN DISTRICTS
CLUSTER REF NO: DSAC12/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Valid Code 08/EB Driver’s
License. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial administration. Relevant
legislation / Policies / prescripts and procedures. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting Methods, Principles and Procedures. Skills:
Good Organizational and Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and
Intrapersonal Skills. Telephonic Etiquette skil10ls. Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical
support services within the Component. Provide personnel administration and
152
clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Midlands Library Depot: Ms T Tshabalala Tel No: (033) 345 2226
POST 16/209 : ADMIN CLERK: ADMIN SUPPORT LIBRARY & ARCHIVES SERVICES REF
NO: DSAC13/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Valid Code 08/EB Driver’s
License. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial administration. Relevant
legislation / Policies / prescripts and procedures. Knowledge and
Understanding of Accounting Methods, Principles and Procedures. Skills:
Good Organizational and Planning Skills. Good Interpersonal and
Intrapersonal Skills. Telephonic Etiquette skil10ls. Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point, etc). Good communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical
support services within the Component. Provide personnel administration and
clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Masuku at 082 920 0883
POST 16/210 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: DSAC14/2026
Mbazwana Library Depot: Northern Districts Cluster
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mbazwana
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate, coupled with a minimum of two
(2) years’ driving experience. Willingness to travel on overnight trips and
working extra hours. Valid code 10 driver’s license plus Professional Driving
Permit (PDP). Knowledge: General understanding of the business
environment. Postal procedures Departmental delegations. Skills: Numeracy
and literacy. Good driving. Good communication (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Collect and send mail bag to and from the post office. Distribute mail and
documents within and outside the Department. Provide driving duties within the
directorate and attending to ad hoc requests. Ensure that the vehicle allocated
to the Directorate is kept in good condition. Assist in recording of face value
forms and documents for distribution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mdletshe at 079 6762 730
POST 16/211 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: DSAC15/2026
South Coast Depot: Eastern Districts Cluster
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Pinetown
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate, coupled with a minimum of two
(2) years’ driving experience. Willingness to travel on overnight trips and
working extra hours. Valid code 10 driver’s license plus Professional Driving
Permit (PDP). Knowledge: General understanding of the business
environment. Postal procedures Departmental delegations. Skills: Numeracy
and literacy. Good driving. Good communication (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Collect and send mail bag to and from the post office. Distribute mail and
documents within and outside the Department. Provide driving duties within the
directorate and attending to ad hoc requests. Ensure that the vehicle allocated
to the Directorate is kept in good condition. Assist in recording of face value
forms and documents for distribution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PP Sidlova Tel No: (031) 701 3237
POST 16/212 : GENERAL ASSISTANT: COASTAL LIBRARY DEPOT REF NO:
DSAC16/20262
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Pinetown
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Willingness to travel overnight
trips. Ability to perform physically demanding duties. Knowledge: Numeracy&
153
Literacy. Library prescripts and procedures. Skills: Numeracy and literacy
Communication skills, filing principles, report writing.
DUTIES : Provide support for library material exchange system. Provide support with
the dispatch and collection of library material from Preparations Section and
affiliated libraries. Maintain library material for loans by affiliated libraries.
Provide labour support for the movement of library material and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Nkosi Tel No: (031) 701 1234
POST 16/213 : GENERAL ASSISTANT: PROMOTIONAL SUPPORT & PUBLISHING –
LIBRARY SERVICES REF NO: DSAC17/2026
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent certificate. Willingness to travel overnight
trips. Ability to perform physically demanding duties. Knowledge: Numeracy&
Literacy. Library prescripts and procedures. Skills: Numeracy and literacy
Communication skills, filing principles, report writing.
DUTIES : Provide support for library material exchange system. Provide support with
the dispatch and collection of library material from Preparations Section and
affiliated libraries. Maintain library material for loans by affiliated libraries.
Provide labour support for the movement of library material and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mthembu at 072 219 1609
POST 16/214 : GENERAL WORKER
Administrative Support Section
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg, Head Office:
Heritage Services Ref No: DSAC18/2026
Library & Archives Services Ref. No: DSAC19/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 8/ ABET certificate or equivalent certificate. Knowledge: Utilizing
cleaning equipment. Occupational health and safety measures. Skills: Basic
communication (written and verbal).
DUTIES : General cleanliness of the buildings. Clean offices. Clean general areas of
premises and their contents. Assist with cleaning of kitchens and their assets
when required. Ensure that ablutions are hygienic and clean. Ensure that waste
is controlled effectively and removed.
ENQUIRIES : Heritage Services: Ms EN Zondi Tel No. (033) 345 3171
Library Services: Ms N Masuku at 082 920 0883
154
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applications are hereby invited for the filling of the
vacant posts, which exist in the Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants using electronic format must quote the relevant reference number
on the application and apply on the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and applicants submitting applications in a
printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must quote the relevant reference
number on the application and forward to the below address.
Capricorn District: The Director: Capricorn District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X28, Chuenespoort, 0745 or
hand delivered to: Block 28 Next to Traffic Government Offices: Lebowakgomo.
Waterberg District: The Director: Waterberg District Limpopo Agriculture and
Rural Development, Private Bag X1048, Modimolle, 0510 or hand delivered to:
NTK Building, Modimolle.
Vhembe District: The Director: Vhembe District Limpopo Agriculture and
Rural Development, Private Bag X2247, Sibasa, 0970 or hand delivered to:
Makwarela Government Offices.
Mopani District: The Director: Mopani District Limpopo Agriculture and Rural
Development, Private Bag X577, Giyani, 0826 or hand delivered to: Old
Parliamentary Building.
Sekhukhune District: The Director: Sekhukhune District, Limpopo
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X01,
Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand delivered to: Block 27 Next to Traffic Government
Offices: Lebowakgomo.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : It is compulsory for the applicant to complete all the mandatory fields of the E-
recruitment System. Once all the fields in an E-recruitment System are
completed, the applicant shall confirm that they understand that by applying
electronically, they agree that all the information presented is true, correct, and
legally binding. All applications submitted through an electronic format shall be
accepted as the final application and may not be amended or supplemented in
any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. Applicants
submitting applications in a printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must
utilize the most recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the
Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of
the Public Service Regulation, 2016, as amended, failure to do so will results
in disqualification. The Z83 form must be completed in a manner that provides
sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed in order for an
applicant to be considered. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the new z83 form by the applicants: All the fields in Parts A, B,
C, and D must be completed. In Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except the following; South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, If an applicant responds "no" to the question I' Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?" then the answer to the next question "In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?" can be left blank or indicated as not
applicable. A "not applicable" or blank response will be allowed on the question
"if your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration.
Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often
indicate "refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached", this is acceptable as
long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information required is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered (Applicants currently employed
by the public service do not need to complete the section). The application
must include only completed and signed Z83 form and a recently updated
155
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience). Certified copies of
Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as
well as a driver's license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the date of the interview date. The applicant
may submit additional information separately where the space provided on z83
form is not sufficient. Applicants who apply for more than one position are
requested to submit separate applications for each position they wish to apply
for. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard
from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. By virtue of applying, you are consenting that the department subject
you to personnel suitability checks e.g. the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks, financial
checks and security vetting. Candidates with foreign qualifications are advised
to attach SAQA accreditation of their qualifications. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Successful incumbents will be expected to sign a
performance agreement within three months of the assumption of duty and be
required to disclose their financial interest in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. Failure to comply with the above requirements will result in the
disqualification of the application. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment for the advertised posts. The employment decision shall
be made by the Employment Equity Plan for the Department. Note: Due to
austerity measures, the department will not carry any related costs (transport,
accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending interviews. Note: These
posts will be posted on the following websites: www.ldard.gov.za /
www.limpopo.gov.za and Departmental social media.
OTHER POST
POST 16/215 : ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (X2 Posts):
Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 01/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn North -West Ref No: LDARD 02/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani District (X3 Posts):
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 03/04/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani West Ref No: LDARD 04/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District (X8 Posts):
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 05/04/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe North Ref No: LDARD 06/04/2026 (X3 Posts)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDARD 07/04/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 08/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District (X2 Posts):
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 09/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg North Ref No: LDARD 10/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District (X3 Posts):
Sekhukhune Central Ref No: LDARD 11/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDARD 12/04/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 13/04/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification NQF level 6 in Animal Health or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. No
experience required. Current registration with the South African Veterinary
Council as Animal Health Technician is compulsory. A valid driver’s licence
(with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, and
Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and negotiation skills. Time
management. Thorough knowledge of Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 35 of
1984). Thorough knowledge of Animal Identification Act, 2002 (Act 6 of 2002).
Knowledge of Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act 40 of 2000). Thorough knowledge of
156
specific diseases control programmes and eradication schemes. Knowledge of
the PFMA. Computer proficiency. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : To render an Animal Health Regulatory Support Service in terms of the Animal
Health Diseases Act (Act 35/1984). Implement disease control measures.
Render a support service to the State Veterinarian regarding animal disease
control, reproduction and production advancement, sample collection and law
enforcement. Assist in the provision of extension services on animal health to
animal owners. Perform administrative and related functions, which would,
inter alia, entail populating databases and compile and submit monthly and
quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Mr. Masera TN
Tel No: (015) 632 8625 or Ms. Maredi BR Tel No: (015) 632 8610
Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 3298/1077
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA, Ms. Lepulana S or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel
No: (015) 632 7000
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) 811
1189
157
ANNEXURE AA
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Mpumalanga Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs is
an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is the intention of the Department to promote
representativity (disability, gender and race) through the filling of posts and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment promote representativity will receive first preference. Persons with
disabilities and all races are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be email to: Coghstarecruitment@mpg.gov.za OR,
couriered OR Hand delivered to: Rhino Building extension 2 No.7 Government
Boulevard, Riverside Park, Mbombela, 1200.
FOR ATTENTION : The Director: HRM & D
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of all qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and
security vetting to determine their suitability for employment, including but not
limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous
employment (reference checks); Qualification verification. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Competency Assessment will be applicable to
recommended candidates on SMS positions only. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have not
been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/216 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/COGHSTA/09
Chief Directorate: Financial Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : A recognised Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree at NQF Level 7 in
Accounting and Auditing or any other relevant qualification. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at senior management level. Experience in Public Financial
Management. Experience in Supply Chain Management. Experience in
preparations of AFS/IFS. Experience in dealing with internal/external Auditors.
Knowledge of the principles and techniques of Corporate Governance. Pre
Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate is required prior to appointment. A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Planning and organizing. Report
writing. Decision making. Strategic capability and leadership, Financial
management, Change management, Knowledge management, People
management and empowerment, Programme and project management,
Service delivery innovations, Client orientation and customer focus, Analytical
thinking and problem solving, Communication and Presentation. Knowledge of
Public Service Prescripts and local government policy frameworks. Computer
Literate.
DUTIES : Provide support to the Head of Department and the other senior managers with
regard to overall compliance to the PFMA and GRAP, related regulation and
practice notes. Coordinate and manage an effective, efficient and economic
Supply Chain Management System in the Department. Ensure effective and
efficient financial management and financial accounting services. Ensure
timely preparation, reporting of financial, and Supply Chain Management
documents. Manage the external audit process, General management
function, Contribute to the effective leadership of the Department, maintaining
focus on its purpose and vision through rigorous analysis and challenge,
158
leading development of a medium term financial strategy and the annual
budgeting process to ensure financial balance and a monitoring process to
ensure its delivery. Contributing to the effective corporate management of the
organization, including strategy implementation, cross-organizational issues,
integrated business and resource planning, risk management and performance
management. Manage the provision of administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/217 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING REF NO:
2026/COGHSTA/10
Chief Directorate: Development and Planning
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a recognised Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree
at NQF Level 7 in Development Planning Studies/Spatial Planning/
Town/Urban and Regional Planning or any other relevant qualification. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at senior management level. A postgraduate
in Development Planning Studies and Project Management will be an added
advantage. Experience in Planning and Infrastructure and Public Financial
Management. Pre Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate is required prior to
appointment. A valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with SACPLAN
as a Professional Planner in terms of the Planning Professions Act, 2002 (Act
36 of 2002). Skills and Competencies: Planning and organising. Report writing.
Decision making. Strategic capability and leadership, Financial management,
Change management, Knowledge management, People management and
empowerment, Programme and project management, Service delivery
innovations, Client orientation and customer focus, Analytical thinking and
problem solving, Communications and presentation. Policy and guidelines
processes. Knowledge in Public Service Prescripts and Local Government
policy frameworks. Knowledge in Spatial planning and land use management
as well as integrated planning and LED. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage Integrated Development and Plannings (IDP) in
municipalities and district development models in the province. Manage and
coordinate the implementation of Local Economic Development Planning. Co-
ordinate and manage the municipalities on sustainable land use Management
services. Co-ordinate the development of Spatial Planning Services and
Geographic Information System Services. Effective and efficient management
of finance, physical and human resources including performance
management. Manage the provision of administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/218 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO:
2026/COGHSTA/11
Chief Directorate: Municipal Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and recognised Advanced Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree at
NQF Level 7 in Human Resource Development/ Education Science/ Public
Administration/ Public Management or any other relevant qualification. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in the
Municipal Capacity Building environment. Pre Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate
is required prior to appointment. A valid driver’s license. Skills and
Competencies: Planning and organising skills. Strategic capability and
leadership, Financial management, Change management, Knowledge
management, People management and empowerment, Programme and
project management, Service delivery innovations, Client orientation and
customer focus, Problem solving and analysis, The ability to interpret and apply
policies. Negotiation, Communication and presentation skills. Report writing.
Knowledge and understanding of national and provincial capacity building
frameworks and all local government prescripts. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Monitor the conducting of research on capacity building measures. Monitor the
development and implementation of institutional and Municipal Capacity
Development framework. Develop and implement Institutional Capacity
159
Building programmes and strategies for Municipalities. Monitor the impact of
training programmes implemented. Establish and maintain key partnerships
with external stakeholders. Monitor the provision of support to Municipalities to
improve human resources capacity. Co-ordinate interventions directed at
improvement of Human Capacity Building in Municipalities. Promote
knowledge sharing programmes for improvement of service delivery in
Municipalities. Ensure that the environment is properly managed and assist
Municipalities to maximize their capacity to deliver their developmental
responsibilities. Manage the development, financing and implementation of
specific interventions that are intended to strengthen the capacity of
Municipalities and the Local Government Systems to perform their
development responsibilities. Monitor and support municipalities to develop
and implement work skills plans. Develop programmes to provide targeted
capacity interventions to identified gaps in municipalities. Manage the provision
of administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/219 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT REF NO:
2026/COGHSTA/12
Chief Directorate: Municipal Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate and a recognized Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor Degree
(NQF Level 07) in Financial Management/Management Accounting / Financial
Accounting/Auditing or any other relevant qualification. A minimum of 5 years’
experience at middle/senior managerial level in financial management. Pre
Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate is required prior to appointment. A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Planning and organising. Report
writing. Decision making. Competency in Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word
and PowerPoint). Good people management. Analytical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Good communication (verbal and written) and presentation.
Interpersonal and writing skills. Knowledge of financial systems. Knowledge of
local government and policy frameworks as well as other related frameworks
and regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Prescripts. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Monitor and follow up on reported unauthorised, irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure by municipalities. Assess annual financial statements for
municipalities in the province, compile a section 131 report and submit to
legislature, provide capacity building to municipalities on financial matters.
Provide financial management support to identified municipalities. Monitor the
implementation of Municipal Property Rates Act. Monitor the implementation of
upper limits, monitor the implementation of anti-corruption measures, Monitor
the implementation of Municipal Finance Management Act. Manage
discretionary interventions (Section 106 of the Municipal Systems Act and 139
of the Constitution). Coordinate and administer Audit outcomes. Monitor the
implementation of Anti-Corruption measures. General effective management
of the Directorate and performance management of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/220 : DIRECTOR: SPATIAL PLANNING REF NO. 2026/COGHSTA/13
Chief Directorate: Development And Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a recognized Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree
at NQF Level 7 in Town and Regional Planning/Urban and Regional
Planning/Spatial Planning or any other relevant qualification. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level. Compulsory registration
with SACPLAN as a Professional Planner in terms of the Planning Professions
Act, 2002 (Act 36 of 2002). A broad knowledge of all facets of town and regional
planning in urban and rural areas, including applicable planning legislation is a
requirement. Proven ability in the field of strategic/forward planning with
specific skills in developing spatial development frameworks and land use
management systems. Pre Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate is required prior
to appointment. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Strategic
160
capability and leadership, Financial management, Change management,
Knowledge management, People management and empowerment,
Programme and project management, Service delivery innovations, Client
orientation and customer focus, Problem solving and analysis,
Communications.
DUTIES : Develop and facilitate implementation of the Provincial Spatial Development
Framework. Coordinate and support the development of spatial planning
services in municipalities and traditional councils. Conduct quality reviews of
spatial planning in municipalities. Provide GIS information for development
planning. Support municipal town and regional planning. Coordinate spatial
planning across all spheres of government in the province. Facilitate the
development and maintenance of traditional community land use plans.
Effective and efficient management of finances, physical and human resources
including performance management. Manage the provision of administrative
support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/221 : DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
2026/COGHSTA/14
Chief Directorate: Development And Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree at NQF Level 7 or
equivalent qualification preferably in Local Economic Development,
Development Planning and /or Economics or any other relevant qualification.
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in the
relevant field. An understanding of various government programmes. Local
government legislation, co-operative governance, community employment
programmes, outcome-based approach five years local government Plan, the
LED Framework, the linkages between LED, Integrated Development Planning
and Spatial Planning and the National Growth Path. Pre Entry SMS or Nyukela
Certificate is required prior to appointment. A valid driver’s license. Skills and
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, Financial management,
Change management, Knowledge management, People management and
empowerment, Programme and project management, Service delivery
innovations, Client orientation and customer focus, Problem solving and
analysis, Communications.
DUTIES : Provide support to municipalities in the development and implementation of
LED strategies. Support municipalities in building vibrant LED structures.
Monitor and evaluate LED programmes implementation and impact thereof.
Mobilise and coordinate public/private sector support to municipal LED
programmes. Development and implement LED capacity building programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/222 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS, POLICY AND RESEARCH REF NO.
2026/COGHSTA/15
Chief Directorate: Human Settlements Planning, Policy and Research
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive SMS remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a recognized Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree
at NQF Level 7 in Public Management/Administration or any other relevant
qualification. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management level in
policy development and research. Excellent knowledge of the applicable and
relevant legislations applicable to the Human Settlements. Pre Entry SMS or
Nyukela Certificate is required prior to appointment. A valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, Financial
management, Change management, Knowledge management, People
management and empowerment, Programme and project management,
Service delivery innovations, Client orientation and customer focus, Problem
solving and analysis, Communications.
DUTIES : Develop and review provincial human settlements policies and legislation.
Conduct research and market analysis within housing sector environment.
Manage the implementation of housing policy, strategy and guidelines, housing
161
norms and Standards. Develop and maintain province -wide medium term
human settlements research. Conduct research on alternative building
technologies / products in human settlements environment. Develop and
implement human settlements delivery related (external)knowledge
management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/223 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER SUPERVISOR (X17 POSTS)
Directorate: Public Participation
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : All Municipalities:
Ehlanzeni District Municipality:
City of Mbombela Ref No: Sup/mbombela01
Bushbuckridge Ref No: Sup/bush02
Nkomazi Ref No: Sup/nkomazi03
Thaba Chweu Ref No: Sup/thaba04
Gert Sibande District Municipality:
Govan Mbeki Ref No: Sup/govan05
Albert Luthuli Ref No: Sup/chief06
Pixley ka-Isaka Seme Ref No: Sup/pixley07
Lekwa Ref No: Sup/lekwa08
Msukaligwa Ref No: Sup/msukwa09
Dipaleseng Ref No: Sup/dipale10
Mkhondo Ref No: Sup/mkhondo11
Nkangala District Municipality:
Thembisile Hani Ref No: Sup/thembi12
Emalahleni Ref No: Sup/emalah13
Dr JS Moroka Ref No: Sup/moroka14
Emakhazeni Ref No: Sup/emakha15
Steve Tshwete Ref No: Sup/steve16
Victor Khanye Ref No: Sup/victor17
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and National Diploma in Public Administration/
Management/Social Sciences, Community Development Studies and or any
relevant qualification. Three (3) years’ relevant experience in community
development environment and an in depth understanding of public participation
and community development. The ability to demonstrate sound knowledge of
policies and government practices. Must have planning and execution skills,
leadership, supervisory and management skills; and the ability to delegate with
empowerment. Understand people management, intergovernmental relations
and using Information Communication and Technology to achieve work
objectives. Applicants must reside in the Municipality where there is a vacancy.
Ability to handle pressure and able to meet deadlines. A valid Driver’s Licence.
Skills and Competencies: Research skills; In-depth understanding and
knowledge of ward and community dynamics; Good communicator;
Networking skills; Analytical skills; Facilitating skills; In depth knowledge of
government regulations and policies; Problem solving skills; Computer skills;
Monitoring and evaluation skills; A thorough knowledge of the dynamics,
culture and language of the target community and must be a resident of the
target community; Project organisation skills; Ability to network efficiently and
effectively; In depth knowledge of government spheres.
DUTIES : Develop work plans and a monitoring tool for work done by CDWs daily,
translating to weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Conduct CDW
Performance Assessments. Convene CDW monthly meetings. Coordinate the
development and update of ward and community profiles. Network with various
spheres of government and other government agencies to develop an
integrated government response towards addressing community challenges.
Monitor and support improvement of service delivery through coordination of
intervention process by relevant structures. Coordinate CDWs to effectively
report early warning in order to improve service delivery. Analyse municipal
reports and identify common trends. Receive referrals and manage the
escalations of reported community concerns. Monitor and support improved
communication channels on community engagements. Facilitate dissemination
162
of government information pamphlets, brochures and related materials. Attend
relevant municipal and district meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
POST 16/224 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER (X25 POSTS)
Directorate: Public Participation
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : All Municipalities:
Ehlanzeni District Municipality:
City of Mbombela Ref No: Mbombela/w/44 Ward No: 44
Bushbuckridge Ref No: Bush/w/07 Ward No: 07
Nkomazi Ref No: Nkomazi/w/07 Ward No: 07
Thaba Chweu Ref No: Thaba/w/01 Ward No: 01
Thaba Chweu Ref No: Thaba/w/12 Ward No: 12
Gert Sibande District Municipality:
Govan Mbeki Ref No: Govan/w/08 Ward No: 08
Govan Mbeki Ref No: Govan/w/15 Ward No: 15
Govan Mbeki Ref No: Govan/w/26 Ward No: 26
Chief Albert Luthuli Ref No: Chief/w/14 Ward No: 14
Chief Albert Luthuli Ref No: Chief/w/23 Ward No: 23
Pixley ka-Isaka Seme Ref No: Pixley/w/02 Ward No: 02
Pixley ka-Isaka Seme Ref No: Pixley/w/05 Ward No: 05
Lekwa Ref No: Lekwa/w/03 Ward No: 03
Lekwa Ref No: Lekwa/w/09 Ward No: 09
Msukaligwa Ref No: Msukwa/w/03 Ward No: 03
Msukaligwa Ref No: Msukwa/w/11 Ward No: 11
Msukaligwa Ref No: Msukwa/w/15 Ward No: 15
Dipaleseng Ref No: Dipale/w/06 Ward No: 06
Mkhondo Ref No: Mkhondo/w/13 Ward No: 13
Nkangala District Municipality:
Thembisile Hani Ref No: Thembi/w/05 Ward No: 05
Emalahleni Ref No: Emalahleni/e/25 Ward No: 25
Dr JS Moroka Ref No: Moroka/w/13 Ward No:13
Emakhazeni Ref No: Emakhaz/w/04 Ward No: 04
Steve Tshwete Ref No: Steve/w/17 Word No: 17
Victor Khanye Ref No: Victor/w/07 Word No: 07
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate and Higher Certificate/Diploma NQF Level 5. In depth
understanding of Community Development work. The successful Candidates
will be registered on a 12 months part-time Community Development
Learnership Programme with a recognised institution Higher Learning. The
successful Candidates must reside in the ward where the vacancy is listed.
Skills and Competencies: Research skills; In-depth understanding and
knowledge of ward and community dynamics; Good communicator;
Networking skills; Analytical skills; Facilitating skills; In depth knowledge of
government regulations and policies; Problem solving skills; Computer skills;
Monitoring and evaluation skills; A thorough knowledge of the dynamics,
culture and language of the target community and must be a resident of the
target community; Project organisation skills; Ability to network efficiently and
effectively; In depth knowledge of government spheres.
DUTIES : Conduct a need analysis to develop a community profile. Conduct door to door
work and community consultation. Identify and determine the needs of
communities. Visit houses annually and keeping proper records of houses
visited and cases referred (weekly monitoring form). Work with communities
and structures in identifying and articulating their needs. Assist government
departments to plan as per community needs. Advocate for the vulnerable.
Promote network and enhance the activities of government (all 3 spheres) and
other community-based workers aimed at improving service delivery. Conduct
social awareness and community education to inform communities about
services provided by government structures. Facilitate information
dissemination to communities through all government departments. Mobilise
communities to organise themselves into focus groups. Network with other
government departments to source information and assist sector departments
to reach focus groups per service area. Consult with all relevant government
departments/institutions to determine services provided and mechanisms to
access these services. Conduct online research on government services to
163
ensure that all relevant information on services available reaches the
communities. Consult the Gateway electronic portal and other information
sources such as Government Online for information on services. Liaise with
local communities and stakeholders. Conduct regular research on all relevant
policies and legislations to stay abreast of new developments. Conduct regular
information sharing with other community workers, institutions and
stakeholders. Raise awareness and advocacy work, including encouraging
communities to engage with opportunities. Link up with existing programs of
departments and other community workers. Network with relevant structures
of civil society, business and community organizations towards community
development. Monitor and report significant trends within communities related
to community and social development, and livelihood security as well as the
impact associated with development projects. Facilitate the initiation and
development of projects in communities and linking them with relevant
resource. Notify existing community project managers of available resources
such as funding opportunities. Organize capacity building for projects. Monitor
development projects within the ward. Act as eyes and ears of government on
projects taking place in the ward. Report any irregularities and progress to the
authorities and COGHSTA. Participate and support IDP, Community Based
Planning and Asset Based Monitoring processes. Use of computer or digital
device to compile reports as required on progress, issues attended to, actions
taken and outcomes. Develop and maintain an electronic database on all
interventions e.g. referrals, remedial actions taken or changes in systems to
improve service delivery. Report on number of community members mobilized
for community outreach programmes & keep records of those who attended.
Report on the status of infrastructure and non-income generating projects in
the Ward.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena Tel No: (013) 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego Tel No: (013)
766 6543
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note: The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
164
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/225 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/260 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X2 Posts)
Bethal Hospital (X2 Posts)
Ermelo Hospital (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/226 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1: NEONATAL - ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/261
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
165
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/227 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1: ICU – AUDULT REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/263 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
166
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/228 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1: PAEDIATRIC - ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/264
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/229 : CHIEF NETWORK CONTROLLER: SERVER ADMINISTRATOR REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/265
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Bachelor’s Degree / Advance Diploma in
Information Technology (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. Professional
certifications such as CISSP, CISM, CCNP, and Azure/AWS Certified Solutions
Architect are highly desirable. Minimum 7–10 years of experience in IT
infrastructure and security, with at least 3 years in a managerial role. Strong
knowledge of networking, virtualization, cloud platforms (AWS, Azure), and
cybersecurity frameworks. Excellent leadership, communication, and problem-
solving skills. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Deep understanding of IP
networking (TCP/IP, MPLS, BGP, OSPF, ISIS). Knowledge of transport
167
networks (DWDM, Microwave, and SDH/SONET). Familiarity with core
systems (EPC/5GC, IMS/VoLTE for telecom). Routing & switching expertise
(Cisco, Huawel, and Aruba). Skills: Business analysis. Project management.
Network and telecommunications security. Problem solving abilities. Personal
Attributes: Proactive and resourceful abilities.
DUTIES : To provide Information and Communication Technology Infrastructure and
Security services for Data Centres Systems and Network in all facilities.
Provide ICT Governance and management processes. Manage and coordinate
the acquisition, installation and maintenance of new ICT systems. Manage and
monitor services of external service providers in accordance with SLA. Manage
user support, systems maintenance and performance of service levels.
Manage provision of system security and training. Manage and monitor
implementation of IT Projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/230 : CHIEF DATA TECHNOLOGIST: INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/266
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Bachelor’s degree / Advanced Diploma in IT,
Computer Science, Informatics (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum three (3) years of experience in IT as a Principal Data Technologist.
5+ years’ experience working with Business Intelligence tools (Power BI, Excel
Advanced, Tableau, SSRS, or similar). Hands on experience with data
cleaning, validation, ETL processes, and data integration from multiple
sources. Experience producing routine performanc-e dashboards, reports, and
analytic summaries. Experience working with large datasets, data warehousing
concepts, and BI system support. Experience troubleshooting BI systems,
resolving user issues, and managing enhancements. Valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Data modelling and data warehousing concepts. ETL processes
and data integration. Dashboard development (Power
BI/Tableau/Excel/SSRS). Statistical analysis, trend analysis, forecasting. Data
quality management and validation techniques. SQL or query-writing ability
(advantageous). Understanding of information systems and databases. Skills:
Data extraction, cleaning, transformation (ETL). Handling large datasets and
multiple data sources. Dashboard and report development (Power BI, Excel
Advanced). Data visualization and storytelling. Basic database/querying skills
(SQL advantageous). Understanding of data warehousing concepts. BI
systems monitoring and troubleshooting. Automation of reporting processes.
Personal Attributes: Proactive and resourceful abilities.
DUTIES : To provide Information and Communication Technology Infrastructure and
Security services for Data Centres Systems and Network in all facilities.
Provide ICT Governance and management processes. Manage and coordinate
the acquisition, installation and maintenance of new ICT systems. Develop,
monitor and maintain policies and guidelines for information and knowledge
management services. Manage and monitor IT Governance and Compliance.
Manage and monitor the provision of Business Intelligence Services. Manage
and monitor the support and coordination of districts information management
components. Manage and monitor the provision of data analysis and reporting
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/231 : PRINCIPAL NETWORK CONTROLLER: IT SERVICE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/267
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
168
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Bachelor’s Degree / Advance Diploma in
Information Technology (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. ITIL
certification (Intermediate or Expert preferred). A minimum three (3) years of
experience in IT service management, LAN & Desktop Support role.
Understanding of networks (LAN/WAN/Wi-Fi), servers, and storage systems.
Basic database management and SQL query skills (advantageous).
Proficiency with Windows OS, Active Directory, and Microsoft 365.
Understanding of cloud technologies (Azure, AWS—advantageous). System
performance monitoring and diagnostic tools. Backup, restore, and patch
management skills. ICT documentation and technical writing. Valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Windows 2003/2008. MS Exchange Server 2007/2010.
Active Directory. ITIL and COBIT. MS 365 Packages. SKILLS: Project
management experience (PMP, PMBOK or PRINCE2 certification is a plus).
Experience in managing outsourced or hybrid IT environments. Familiarity with
Agile and DevOps practices. Strong analytical and reporting capabilities.
Personal Attributes: Business Analysis and Design. Strong understanding of
software development life cycle (SDLC). Excellent communication and
presentation skills for training purposes. Ability to explain technical concepts to
non-technical users. Strong problem-solving and analytical skills. Patience and
adaptability when working with diverse user groups. Ability to manage multiple
tasks and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : To Manage and coordinate Information and Communication Technology
Operations. Provide ICT Governance and management processes. Monitor
and coordinate the acquisition, installation and maintenance of new ICT
systems. Develop and implement ITSM strategy and governance. Provide it
service delivery and operations. Provide team leadership and development.
Manage stakeholder engagement. Deploy tools and technology services
across the Department. Develop and implement continuous improvement
plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/232 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: MAINTENANCE REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/268
SALARY : R914 517 - R975 582 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus (NQF Level 7) in Engineering as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum (3) years’ experience post qualification. Current
registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineer as Electrical Engineer (2026). A valid driver’s licence. Computer
literacy. Knowledge: PFMA / Treasury Regulations / Practice Notes /
Instructions / Circulars. Provincial / Departmental Supply Chain Management
Policies. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations.
Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations. Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Health Act and Regulations.
Engineering Profession Act of 2000.
DUTIES : Development, interpretation and customisation of functional and technical
norms and standards from an engineering perspective. Investigate proposals
for innovative service delivery mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies.
Compile briefing documentation and specifications from an engineering
perspective. Investigate electronic and electrical engineering installations and
equipment, undertake design work and implement corrective measures.
Oversee implementation [construction] and commissioning of electrical
engineering installations. Research/literature studies to keep up with new
technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical information
management options for the Department including interaction with relevant
professional development boards/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
169
POST 16/233 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: MAINTENANCE REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/269
SALARY : R791 604 - R849 525 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus (NQF Level 7) in Quantity Surveying as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience post
qualification. Current registration with the South African Council for the Quantity
Surveying Profession (SACQSP) as Quantity Surveyor (2026). A valid driver’s
licence. Computer literacy. Knowledge: Health Act and Regulations. Quantity
Surveying Profession Act of 2000. Construction Industry Development Board
Act of 2000 and Regulations. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations. PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Treasury Practice Notes and
Circulars. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of
2007.Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations.
DUTIES : Development, interpretation and customisation of quantity surveying planning
and cost norms and standards. Policies, strategies, plans, procedures and
criteria of all infrastructure projects/programmes. Contribute to Project Briefing
documents, costing models and operational narratives. Preparation of quantity
surveyor inputs to the preparation of the User Asset Management Plan, the
final project lists, the budgets and Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan. Research/literature studies to keep up with new technologies, viability
and feasibility of the geographical information management options for the
Department including interaction with relevant professional development
boards/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/234 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/272 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 484 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Shabalala Clinic
Matsulu CHC
Dwaleni Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing. At least five (05) years of period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Primary Health Care Nursing Science.
Experience and knowledge of the District Health System. Demonstrate an in-
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how these impact on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and finance and practices. Knowledge of relevant legal
framework such as Nursing Act, Health Occupational and Safety Act, Patients
Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Operational Management Skills. Problem
Solving, planning and Organizing Skills. Expected to work under pressure and
on night duty. Leadership. Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution,
inter-personal and communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and
how this impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added
advantage (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
170
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/235 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): NEONATAL–ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/273
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 484 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Neonatal–ICU Nursing Science. A minimum of nine (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing. At least five (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Neonatal–ICU Nursing Science. Skills:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and
other relevant legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound
knowledge and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure,
grievance procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and
problem-solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional
policy framework Good interpersonal skills including public relations,
negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and
budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Neonatal–ICU. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required. Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources. Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele. Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
171
POST 16/236 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PAEDIATRIC–ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/274
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 484 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District: Ermelo Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Paediatric–ICU Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing management A
minimum of nine (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing. At least five (05) years of period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Paediatric-ICU Nursing Science. Skills:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and
other relevant legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound
knowledge and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure,
grievance procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and
problem-solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional
policy framework Good interpersonal skills including public relations,
negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and
budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Paediatric–ICU. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/237 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/275
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 484 per annum
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Trauma and Emergency Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. A minimum of nine (09) years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least five (05) years of
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific
172
specialty after obtaining the one (01) year post basic qualification in Trauma
and Emergency Nursing Science. Skills: Knowledge of nursing care processes
and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal frameworks such as
Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights
Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge and skills in implementing
disciplinary code and procedure, grievance procedure Leadership,
organizational, decision making and problem-solving abilities within the limit of
the public sector and institutional policy framework Good interpersonal skills
including public relations, negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills.
Knowledge of financial and budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to
the relevant resources under management Insight into public health sector
strategies and priorities including the nursing strategy, standards procedures
and policies pertaining to nursing care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Trauma and Emergency. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required. Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources. Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele. Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/238 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-A7) REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/276
SALARY : R720 819 - R846 282 per annum
CENTRE : Waterval Boven Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic Qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms Government Notice 425 (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) that allows
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of eight (8) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in unit/ward management. At least three
(3) years of the period referred to above must be recognizable experience at
management level. Good leadership qualities. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Good organizing and planning skills. Report writing skills,
ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide duties of the Nursing Service Manager. Provide support to all nursing
programs. Supervise optimal holistic nursing care with set standards and with
professional legal frameworks. Effective management and utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth and self-development. Provide
conducive environment for all patients and staff. Provide Strategic Support and
quality nursing care. Compile reports as required. Participate in-service
trainings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
173
POST 16/239 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/286 (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423–R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Khumbula Clinic (X2 Posts)
Mbonisweni Clinic (X1 Post)
Shabalala Clinic (X1 Post)
Matsulu CHC (X1 Post)
KaNyamazane CHC (X1 Post)
Mpakeni Clinic (X1 Post)
Legogote Clinic (X1 Post)
Dwaleni Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/240 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY:
NEONATAL REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/293 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Midwifery:
Neonatal Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Labour Unit: Neonatal. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
174
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/241 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ICU TRAINED /
EXPERIENCED REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/303 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in ICU Trained Nursing
Science / experienced. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the ICU Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/242 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PAEDIATRIC-ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/330 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
175
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Paediatric-ICU Nursing
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Paediatric-ICU Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/243 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CHILD HEALTH CARE REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/331
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Critical Care Nursing
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Child Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
176
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/244 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPERATING THEATRE REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/332
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Operating Theatre
Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Operating Theatre Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/245 : CONTROL PROGRAMMER: IT INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/277
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus National Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Information Technology as recognised by SAQA. Proficiency in programming
languages (e.g., Java, C#, Python, or similar). Experience with databases
(SQL, Oracle, etc.) and system integration. Strong understanding of software
development life cycle (SDLC). Excellent communication and presentation
skills for training purposes. Ability to explain technical concepts to non-
technical users. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Windows 2003/2008. MS
Exchange Server 2007/2010. Active Directory. Experience with databases
(SQL, Oracle, etc.) and system integration. Skills: Business Analysis and
Design. Strong understanding of software development life cycle (SDLC).
Excellent communication and presentation skills for training purposes. Ability
to explain technical concepts to non-technical users. Strong problem-solving
and analytical skills. Patience and adaptability when working with diverse user
groups. Ability to manage multiple tasks and meet deadlines. Personal
Attributes: Proactive and resourceful abilities.
DUTIES : To provide System Development and Training to end-users. Provide Systems
Development and Design. Conduct Training & Support for Systems. Provide
Customer Relations and Online Support to users. Execute Test Planning &
Designs.
177
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/246 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/304
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial / Accounting Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a
minimum of three (3) years’ extensive at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8)
within Finance Environment. Knowledge of legislative prescripts governing the
public sector Financial Administration, but emphasis should be on the Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act of 2000, supply chain management. A
guide to Accounting Officer / Authority and practice notes. Full knowledge of
management and performance on the transversal system used in Government.
Skills such as MS Word and Excel Spreadsheet application of any software,
financial analytical skills, will be a pre-requisite. Extensive knowledge of all
relevant legislation. Practical knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS)
and LOGIS including SCOA (Standard Chart of Accountants). Analytical skills.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Responsible for the effective financial management and accounting which
includes: the implementation of financial systems and timely submission of
financial reports in strict compliance with the PFMA and other prescripts,
preparation and maintenance of bank reconciliation statements, preparation,
compilation and interpretation of Interim and Annual Financial Statements.
Develop and manage the budget processes in the institution in conjunction with
hospital management and other stakeholders in line with departmental
financial strategy. Improve supply chain management compliance in line with
related prescripts. Develop, implement and monitor measures designed to
optimize revenue collection. Manage institutional fleet, and
maintenance/repairs of infrastructure and buildings. Ensure that all payments
for compensation of employees, goods and services, transfers, subsidies and
reporting are efficiently and effectively performed. Reconcile all ledger
accounts with control accounts in the ledger. Liaise with relevant role players
regarding transversal financial matters. Ensure that all financial records and
documents are kept safe and up to date. Must be able to identify, develop and
implement internal controls (including policies) to prevent unauthorized,
irregular and fruitful expenditure. Ensure effective management of debtors.
Manage Finance staff, undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions, and ensure sound financial management is provided
all the time within the hospital. Identification of measure cost drivers and
develop strategies to minimize overspending of budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/247 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/305
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Policy / Public Management / Development Studies / Public Administration. as
recognized by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate qualification (e.g. in Public
Health) will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Strategic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA), Treasury Regulations and other local government legislation. Must
possess the following skills: facilitation, coordination, presentation,
communication, analytical and problem-solving, report writing and stakeholder
178
management. Proficiency in Microsoft suite is desirable, with strong working
capability in Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the planning calendar, templates and internal processes for
development and revision of the Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan,
in line with national and provincial directives and timelines. Consolidate and
technically quality-assure programme inputs into draft Strategic Plan/APP and
aligned operational/implementation plans. Support alignment across planning
instruments to strengthen coherence and traceability of objectives, indicators,
targets and interventions. Provide technical guidance to programmes and
districts on formulating and refining measurable, consistent indicators and
targets aligned to departmental objectives. Contribute to departmental
visioning and strategic direction-setting, including preparing technical inputs for
strategic sessions. Coordinate and support alignment between
strategic/statutory plans and municipal Integrated Development Plans by
providing health-sector inputs to municipal/district processes and ensuring
departmental priorities are integrated into district/metro planning instruments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/248 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL PLANNING REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/306
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration / Public Management / Development Studies / Health
Management / Project Management as recognized by SAQA. A relevant
postgraduate qualification (e.g. Public Health, Programme / Project
Management) will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Strategic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA), Treasury Regulations and other local government legislation. Must
possess the following skills: facilitation, coordination, presentation,
communication, analytical and problem-solving, report writing and stakeholder
management. Proficiency in Microsoft suite is desirable, with strong working
capability in Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate operational planning calendar, templates and processes for
developing, consolidating and annually reviewing the Department’s Annual
Operational Plans across programmes and districts, per provincial and national
timelines and directives. Facilitate translation of Strategic Plan and APP
commitments, ensuring coherence and alignment to departmental priorities.
Support integration with resource planning, including human resource
implications. Track and review implementation through monitoring
engagements, consolidated status updates and identification of bottlenecks
requiring management action. Compile analytical planning and implementation
reports for management structures, including EXCO, committees and oversight
forums, and provide inputs for quarterly and annual performance reporting.
Maintain planning tools, templates and systems, ensuring complete, accurate
and consistent data. Coordinate alignment with municipal Integrated
Development Plan priorities, translating agreed health commitments into
implementable activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/249 : HEALTH PROMOTION PRACTITIONER REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/308 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Sead Clinic and Winfred Maboa CHC (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus an appropriate and recognized
National Diploma in Health Promotion or equivalent qualification. At least three
179
(03) years’ appropriate experience in the field of health promotion. Good
interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer
literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement health promotion programmes, strategies, interventions and
campaigns at facility and community level. Plan and provide information,
education and communication activities. Promote community, inter-sectoral
and non-governmental participation in health promotion programmes and
interventions. Establish household community components of integrated
management of childhood illness, healthy lifestyle interventions and health
promoting schools. Participate in Local forums to build relationships across
sectors and to identify opportunities for health advocacy. Distribute IEC
materials and resources within the sub-district. Support health sector initiatives
in the sub-district, including those initiated by local authorities, schools,
workplaces and other settings. Submit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/250 : CLINICAL CASE MANAGER REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/333
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in
terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in ICU / Critical Care Science will
be an added advantage. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
NB: Non OSD posts. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Good knowledge of the
Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS), Knowledge of the Medical Schemes
Act 131 of 1998 i.e. the Chronic Disease List (CDL) and Diagnostic Treatment
Pairs (DTP) and the application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB)
legislation. Experience in ICD-10 Code assignment and the ability to link
patient diagnosis with procedure codes will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Identify and select externally funded patients for case management
intervention Perform Case Management functions, i.e. obtaining pre-
authorisation for emergency admissions, verify benefits with medical schemes
and send clinical updates and assist with the implementation of Case
Management policies, protocols and procedures. Daily ward rounds to identify
billable services done on RAF, M/A, SAPS, PCS, IOD, DOJ, H3. Liaise with the
various role players e.g. clinicians and medical scheme case managers to
monitor utilisation while in hospital. Monitor ICD-10 coding and other clinical
information to prevent rejections by funders. Assist in Revenue office with ICD-
10 coding accuracy before submitting a claim, provide most appropriate
procedure codes. Dissemination of information. Do clinical statistics monthly of
the cases managed, ICD10 codes used, medical schemes, authorizations
obtained, updates done and clinical rejections monitored.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/251 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/309
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
180
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA or equivalent qualification.
Extensive knowledge of outpatient administration, reception in and help desk
functions. Extensive knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user
guide/procedure book. Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of
sector financial administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of
relevant prescripts such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill,
report writing skills be computer literate and have ability to work under
pressure. Be available to work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and
be part of the hospital’s multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will
serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/252 : DATA TECHNOLOGIST: LAN AND DESKTOP SUPPORT REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/310 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus National Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Information Technology as recognized by SAQA. ITIL Foundation
certification (ITIL Intermediate or Expert preferred). A minimum three (3) years
of experience in IT service management, LAN & Desktop Support role. Strong
knowledge of ITSM frameworks, tools, and methodologies. Excellent
communication, leadership, and problem-solving skills. Experience with
service management platforms (e.g., Service Now, Any desk, BMC Remedy).
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Windows 2003/2008. MS O365 packages.
Active Directory. Remote Support. Skills: Remote support platforms. Business
analysis. Project management. Network and telecommunications security.
Problem solving abilities. Personal Attributes: Proactive and resourceful
abilities. Team player.
DUTIES : To provide Local Area Network, Wide Area Network and Desk top Support
services to all users. Provide Technical Support & Troubleshooting. Perform
Hardware & Software Maintenance. Provide Network & Systems
Administration. Maintain Security & Compliance for Server and Network.
Provide Project Support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/253 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/334
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification plus three
(3) years relevant experience in Finance or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
Finance / Logistic / Management Accounting / Financial Management as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of relevant legislation/ regulations and
policies as well as transversal financial system in Government such as BAS
and LOGIS. Sound interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy.
181
Self-driven, result orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and acceptance of
responsibility.
DUTIES : To render provisioning services. Maintain sound provisioning and logistical
systems and processes. Maintain updated provisioning records. Manage and
maintain the logistical and warehouse administration systems. Maintain and
control consumable stores. Issuing of consumable store items. Monitor and
control of the adherence to sound accounting. Monitor and control all payments
on the transversal systems. Knowledge of legal framework and any other
policies. Ensure correct allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial
reports as well as preparing financial statement, projections and provide
meaningful interpretation reports. The incumbent will be expected to assist in
the budget formulation, compiling of cash flow budget as well as the monthly
reports. Attend monthly meetings and operational meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/254 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/335
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience in Supply
Chain Management or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Logistics
/ Procurement / Supply Chain Management / Financial / Accounting
Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge and experience of
provisioning administration, main focus in the following areas: LOGIS,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS financial systems.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Supervise and render demand and acquisition services. Supervise and
undertake logistical services. Supervise and control the work of sub-ordinate
(including training) in the supply chain management unit. Deal with more
advanced and complicated matters pertaining to provisioning administration.
Manage all aspects of orders such as quotations, purchase and processing of
requisitions, authorization of procurement advice and guidance to all clients,
chief user clerks and responsibility managers. Ensure compliance with
departmental and Treasury Regulations. Evaluate and test compliance of all
purchasing transactions. Manage all open orders. Deal with Human resources
matters such as leave and perform development system of quarterly evaluation
reports. Adhere to regulations and legislation pertaining supply chain
management unit. Facilitate and administer requisitions for good and services.
Implement internal procurement policies, regulations systems and procedures.
Maintain procurement and provisioning systems and processes. Administer
payment processes. Supervision of the subordinates. Attend and respond to
audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/255 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/318 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
KaNyamazane CHC (X2 Posts)
Msogwaba Clinic (X2 Posts)
Matsulu CHC (X2 Posts)
Mpakeni Clinic (X1 Post)
182
Phola-Nsikazi CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/256 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): ICU-ADULT REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/324 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 16/257 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/3387 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post)
Nkangala District: Witbank Hospital (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
183
SANC as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
184
ANNEXURE BB
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINICAL TREASURY
The Northern Cape Provincial Administration is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. The
Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s). Women and
persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference number, should be forwarded as
follows: The Deputy Director – Human Resource Management, Post To:
Department of Northern Cape Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X5054,
Kimberley 8300 or Hand Deliver to: Metlife Towers Building, Cnr Knight &
Stead, 7th Floor, Post Office Building, Kimberley, or Email Online applications
should be emailed to specific e-mail addresses under each post.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. SB. Louw
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory
Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS, a requirement for all
applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the
name “Certificate for entry into SMS” and the full details can be obtained by
following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. The successful candidate will be required to provide proof of
completion of the NSG Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme Certificate for entry into the SMS. Furthermore, candidates
shortlisted for the SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and a
compulsory competency based assessment. The successful candidate will be
appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance process and the
verification of educational qualification certificates. Appointment of these
positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security clearance.
Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social media
accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed. The successful candidate
will sign the performance agreement and employment contract within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. It will also be required that the
successful candidate declare to the EA particulars of all registrable financial
interests. Applications submitted using the incorrect (old) Z83 form will not be
considered. Further note that the new Z83 form must be completed in full and
signed in order for the applicant to be considered. The new employment (Z83)
form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained at any
government department. Applicants are not required to submit/attach copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application, but must submit
the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae only. The provision of certified
documents will only be required from shortlisted candidates for submission on
or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted applicants will be subjected to
qualification verification, reference checking, security screening and vetting.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to
submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted. In
instances where applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such
evaluation upon being shortlisted for a post. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. The successful candidate will be appointed subject
to positive results of the security clearance process and the verification of
educational qualification certificates. Appointment of these positions will be
provisional, pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken
on the day of the interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants
may be accessed. The successful candidate will sign the performance
agreement and employment contract within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate
declare to the EA particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed
candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s
convenience. The department reserves the right not to make appointments to
the advertised posts. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
185
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/258 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (TCE package)
CENTRE : Kimberley:
Ref No: NCPT/2026/20 (Department of Roads and Public Works) (DRPW)
Ref No: NCPT/2026/21 (Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison) (DTSL)
Ref No: NCPT/2026/22 (Department of Agriculture, Environmental and Land
Reform (DAERL)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 7 tertiary qualification in Finance / Accounting or equivalent. Post
graduate qualification in Finance / Accounting or equivalent will be added
advantage. Minimum 5 year’s relevant senior management experience dealing
with financial matters. A valid driver’s license. Skills & Knowledge: Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa. Public Finance Management Act. Financial
Norms and Standard (PFMA, MFMA, Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury Directives). Knowledge of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
budget. Knowledge of legislation, Directives and procedures with regards to
Financial Management (PFMA, MFMA, Treasury regulations, Directives,
Division of Revenue act, Appropriation Act, Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
Act. B.B.B.E.E Policy framework. Knowledge of the Department’s constitutional
mandate. Auditing practices. Business partnering. Labour relations Act.
Research Methodology. Employee Performance Management and
Development System. Employment Equity Act. Policy analysis and
development. Planning and Organizing skills. Strategist. Analytical. Decision-
making skills. Problem solving skills. Facilitation skills and Conflict
management. Computer literacy (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Support and advice the Department on effective utilization of resources and
implementation of strategies: Provide advice on financial related matters for
the fulfilment of the Department’s mandate. Development of financial
management and procedures. Monthly reporting on implementation of projects
and related finances. Oversee and manage the provision of accounting
management services to the department: Develop management accounting
policies, processes and procedures. Conduct medium and long term financial
planning in line with the MTEF processes. Compile budget estimates, monthly
forecast, project planning and produce adjusted cash flow. Advice program and
responsibility managers with regards to allocation, re-allocation, approval of
budget and other budgetary matters. Monitor and report on expenditure trends
and compile appropriation statements. Oversee and manage the provision of
financial accounting, administration and salary administration services: Ensure
the provision of financial accounting and administration services. Ensure the
provision of salary administration processes. Oversee the provision of internal
control services: Ensure the implementation of internal audit
recommendations. Ensure and manage Financial System Controls within
financial management. Ensure compliance in relation of policies, process and
procedures. Ensure financial information and service assurance. Liaise and
manage relations with the Auditor General and other stakeholders. Oversee
the provision of Supply Chain and Asset management services: Ensure and
manage the provision of supply chain (demand, acquisition and logistics)
management services. Ensure and manage the provision of assets and
disposal management services. Oversee and Manage Resources within the
Chief directorate personnel: Training and development of officials.
Performance Management. Work allocation. Asset Management. Ensure
maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : GL Bosvark at 083 391 8154
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: Ncpt-HR@ncpg.gov.za
186
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT SAFETY AND LIAISON
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : No Hand Delivery or mailed applications will be accepted. Applications stating
the relevant reference number must be submitted on the link provided hereto
below. https://form.jotform.com/261233339528559
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. JJ Jafta
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Failure to do so,
your application will be disqualified. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application form for employment and must be fully completed,
initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully
complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA) Your information will be used solely for the purpose of these
positions and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the
Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/259 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REVENUE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: S4.1/04/13
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in Financial
Management/Accounting. Relevant experience: 5 years of experience in the
financial field at middle/senior management level. Computer skills. Certificate
of SMS (Nyukela) submitted prior to appointment. Knowledge and Skills:
187
Knowledge of financial legislation and prescripts related to the PFMA.
Knowledge on financial regulations related to revenue management,
Knowledge on legislation related to the AFS AND IFS, Management skills and
Knowledge and experience in financial management processes.
DUTIES : Provide strategic management direction and advice. Development and monitor
the implementation of financial accounting and revenue policies, procedures
and internal control measures. Provide strategic guidance in line with the
Departmental Annual Performance Plan. Ensure alignment of departmental
policies with Treasury Frameworks. Ensure timely recording of financial
transactions in compliance with the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, and
GRAP/GAAP standards. Oversee the month end and year end closure
processes. Identify financial risk and implementation mitigation strategies.
Facilitate external and internal audit processes and ensure the implementation
of audit recommendations. Manage the Financial Management aspects of the
department. Prepare and compile annual and interim financial statements.
Manage and monitor the general ledger, suspense accounts and financial
adjustments. Manage the correct utilization and capturing of the financial
systems, BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS etc. Institute risk management processes.
Manage the provision of financial accounting and administration services in
terms of ledgers, journals, interim and annual financial statements. Manage
Revenue management services within the department. Ensure accurate billing,
recording and collection of all departmental revenue. Monitor and manage
debtors to ensure effective debt recovery and minimize losses. Ensure
compliance with National Treasury guidelines, PFMA provisions and the
Division of the Revenue Act in terms of management and collection of revenue.
Management responsibilities: Responsible for human resource management,
this includes monitoring of performance, leave, disciplinary issues, training and
development. Financial Management includes budget monitoring and
planning. Responsible for policy development in order to ensure that the
directorates performance is aligned to the strategic plan of the department.
Responsible for policy analysis and implementation to ensure the efficient
governing of the integration of directorates functions
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/260 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN, ASSET AND MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING
SERVICES REF NO: S4.1/04/08
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in Management
Accounting/financial Accounting or Supply Chain and Asset Management. 5
years of’ experience in the financial field at middle/senior management level.
Computer skills. Certificate of SMS (Nyukela) submitted prior to appointment.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of financial legislation and prescripts related
to the PFMA, Knowledge on financial regulations related to Supply Chain and
Asset management. Knowledge on the tender legislation, processes and
protocols, Management skills, Knowledge of management accounting
legislation. Knowledge of the national framework for contract management.
DUTIES : Provide Strategic management guidance and advice to the department in
terms Management Accounting Services. Compile and manage the
departmental budget. Responsible for the determination of additional funds
required from the budget adjustment estimates. Ensure that there is alignment
between the departmental budget and the strategic priorities of the department
and MTDP priorities. Advice the CFO on budgetary implications and other
matters that needs strategic intervention. Evaluate the performance of the
department against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards.
Ensure budget allocations to the different programs in accordance to the
relevant legislation and guidelines. Manage the assessment of expenditure
trends within the department. Ensure the preparation of the Annual and
Adjustment Budgets for the department. Ensure that the SCM and Assets
processes are aligned to the departmental strategic operational plan. Provide
strategic advice in terms of the Supply Chain and Asset Management process.
Provide strategic advice on SCM matters. Develop and ensure the
implementation of the SCM and Asset policies and frameworks in line with the
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Ensure that the demand management
procurement strategy aligns with the budget and strategic objectives. Ensure
188
adequate systems and internal controls for receipt, storage and issuance of
goods. Manage the disposal of redundant, obsolete or unserviceable items in
accordance with legislative processes. Ensure that a correct and update Asset
register is in place for control and financial reporting purpose. Ensure proper
record keeping of all financial matters as set out in the prescribed norms and
standards. Ensure prevention of irregular expenditure and accurate reporting
thereof. Manage the coordination of the SCM and Asset management audits
and ensure the implementation of audit recommendations. Manage asset
acquisition, movement, maintenance and disposal of assets. Manage the
functioning of departmental Bid Committees: Ensure protocols is in place that
guide the compiling of bid documents. Ensure the set criteria for the registration
of the various bid applications is adhered to. Ensure that all procedures are
aligned to the relevant regulations and frameworks. Manage the contract
allocation and supplier performance: Ensure the set criteria for contract
allocation is adhere to. Ensure the effective contract management and
compliance with service level agreement. Ensure the updating of the supplier
database. Responsible for addressing of non-performance, disputes and
irregularities in contracts. Management Responsibilities: Responsible for
human resource management, this includes monitoring of performance, leave,
disciplinary issues, training and development. Financial Management includes
budget monitoring and planning. Responsible for policy development in order
to ensure that the directorates performance is aligned to the strategic plan of
the department. Responsible for policy analysis and implementation to ensure
the efficient governing of the integration of directorates functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/261 : DISTRICT MANAGER: ZWELENTLANGA FATMAN MGCAWU (ZFM) REF
NO: S4.1/04/12
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Upington (ZFM District)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 Degree in Public Management with Project Management as an
added benefit. Relevant experience: 3-5 Years middle management. Computer
skills. Valid driver’s licence. Management and leadership qualities. Knowledge
and Skills: Establish and manage a positive relationship with colleagues and
customers. Manage resources to achieve planned outcomes. Implement and
monitor quality and continuous improvement processes, Participate in planning
and reviewing quality and improvement processes, Influence the development
and direction of the district office to be in line with mandate of the department.
DUTIES : Manage police service support and coordination to the Civilian Secretariat for
Police within the Districts. Ensure the efficient administration of departmental
funds and logistical support allocated to police oversight in the districts.
Manage the coordination of development programmes and training
programmes for officials involved in policing oversight operations. Monitoring
of police operations to ensure adherence to the relevant national and provincial
prescripts and act. Manage Transport Operations in the district: Provide
support and input in terms of the development of public transport infrastructure,
e.g. taxis, taxi ranks bus shelters. Monitor the quality and effectiveness of
public transport services that are provided. Manage the process of license and
permits in district: Manage Transport Regulations and Law Enforcement in the
district. Ensure the implementation of road safety campaigns and educational
programmes that target the high-risk areas and behaviours. Ensure that Traffic
Law Enforcement which includes speed enforcement, drunken driving
operations, vehicle and driver fitness compliance takes place in the district.
Manage the provision of over loading control services and weighbridge
compliance matters. Management responsibilities: Responsibilities for human
resource management, this includes monitoring of performance, leave,
disciplinary issues, training and development. Financial Management which
includes budget monitoring and planning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
189
POST 16/262 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OPERATOR LICENSE AND PERMITS REF NO:
S4.1/04/07 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Kimberley Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree at NQF level 7 Transport Management. Legal qualifications would be
an advantage. Relevant experience: 3-5 Years middle management. Computer
skills. Valid driver’s licence. Management and leadership qualities. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of National Transport Amended Act and Regulations.
Knowledge of planning processes. Analytical skills, monitoring and reporting
skills, Participate in planning and renewing and improving on processes,
Knowledge of the National Transport Act, Manage Human Resources and
ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved.
DUTIES : Ensure the effective operations of the Provincial Regulatory Entity. Provide
advice in terms of operating procedures and legislation. Provide guidance to
the PRE committee in terms of the adjudication of applications operating
license. Management the taxi and public transport route allocations: Advice on
the route allocation and ensure that allocations is done effectively and, in a
manner, to enhance service delivery. Manage risk assessments in terms of
public transport system in the province. Responsible for risk assessments and
the identification of possible risks for the province. Liaise with SAPS and the
municipalities of the various regions in terms of traffic planning and transport
planning in order to mitigate risks. Manage the NLTIS in the Province. Ensure
the proper and effective administration of the NLTIS System and Legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/263 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: S4.1/04/03
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in financial Management at NQF Level 7. 3
Years Relevant supervisory experience. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, GRAP, BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS.
DUTIES : Collection and recording of revenue: Cashier, banking service and electronic
payments. Monitor and review the procedures for the collection and
safekeeping of all monies and compliance with the relevant prescripts. Monitor
and review the receipt and collection of monies to ensure that it is in
accordance with the appropriate tariffs and properly recorded. Oversee that the
banking of monies are done in accordance with the prescribed processes.
Oversee that bank reconciliations are performed and are correct. Oversee the
verification of the validity and allocation of payments received via electronic
transfers. Oversee the safeguarding of source documents and face value
forms. Debt management: Oversee the identification and accurate recording of
debts owed to the department. Liaise with debtors in the most complex and
problematic cases to determine payback conditions and time span. Oversee
the process of obtaining the accounting officer’s approval for debt collection
conditions. Obtain the accounting officer’s approval for debt payback
conditions and time span on the cases handled. Oversee the accurate
allocation of monies received. Monitoring and reporting on revenue: Oversee
and monitor income against budget and review reconciliations. Oversee and
undertake the development of corrective measures when required. Oversee
and review disclosure notes on revenue collection. Oversee and collate
financial supporting information for planning purposes. Ensure completeness
and accuracy of financial information. Expenditure management:
Compensation of employees. Oversee the verification of the capturing of
payroll transactions on the accounting system. Oversee quality assure al
payroll transactions. Authorises reimbursement transactions on the accounting
system. Oversee the reconciliation of transactions (interface) on the payroll
(PERSAL) with the accounting system (BAS). Authorises payments to third
parties (employer contributions to pension funds, medical aid funds, tax
contributions and reconciliations etc) outside the payroll system. Oversee
verification of information for payroll certification. Goods and services: Oversee
verification of source documents. Oversee the quality assurance and
verification of transactions on BAS/LOGIS. Ensure that expenditure is in line
with budget and item provisioning. Oversee the correct capturing of banking
details on the accounting system. Oversee creditor reconciliation (ensure that
190
service providers are paid timely and correctly). Reporting: Oversee the
processing of information to determine expenditure against budget. Review
and analyse expenditure report, distribute to budget holders and obtain inputs
on expenditure status. Oversee the compilation of interim and annual reports
on conditional grants. Ensure the safeguarding of all source documents.
Supervise employees to ensure and effective financial accounting service. This
would inter alia entail the following: General supervision of employees. Allocate
duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees. Advise and
lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of work. Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor work system and processes
to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Youth, Women and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/264 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND
ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: S4.1/04/04 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree, NQF 7, in Organisational Development/Industrial
Psychology/Strategic Planning. 3-4 years’ experience in the organisational
development and planning environment. Officially trained in Job Evaluation,
initial and follow-up training certificate. Computer skills. Valid driver’s licence.
Analytical thinking. Management and leadership qualities. Knowledge and
Skills: Establish and manage a positive relationship with colleagues and
stakeholders. Implement and monitor quality and continuous improvement
processes. Participated in planning and reviewing of the quality in terms of
processes. Knowledge of legislation and directives convening the field of
Knowledge of the evaluation system and standard operating procedure
software. Knowledge on conducting research. Analytical thinking and
presentation skills. Planning and communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that the plans are aligned to the regulations and national frameworks.
Responsible for the consolidation of inputs taking in to account the service
delivery agreement and mandate of the department. Provide advice to
managers on the development of measurable performance indicators and
planned targets taking in to consideration the long-term impact of the strategic
goals. Ensure that performance indicators are sector relevant and addresses
the strategic plan and APP. Advise managers on this aspect. Attend the national
and provincial meetings regarding the strategic and operational planning of the
department and provide feedback report. Develop and maintain departmental
organisational organogram in line with strategic plan. Analyse the current
structure and identify gaps that must be considered when redesigning and
updating the structure. Consult stakeholders on inputs, analysing inputs.
Collate information towards the review of the Organisational Structure of the
Department annually. Develop and advise on changes to the structure. Monitor
the implementation of the approved organisational structure. Responsible for
organisational functionality assessment in order for the department to be
effective in terms self-assessments readiness to deliver services effectively.
Responsible for Job Evaluation and provide advice on the development of Job
descriptions. In terms of the job descriptions research must be conducted to
confirm the content of the post. Provide input and advice on the drafted job
descriptions. In terms of Job Evaluations, information must be collected and
analysed after the job evaluation interview has been concluded. Capture the
information on the Job Evaluation System considering the information on the
job description and information gathered during the job evaluation interview.
Present the Job Evaluation information to the Preliminary Committee sitting
and Provincial job Evaluation Panel for approval. Responsible for proper record
keeping of all approved job evaluation submissions and job descriptions.
Facilitate the performing of Operational Management Framework Functions.
Gather and analyse information needed to develop the Service Delivery
Charter, Service Delivery improvement plan and the Service Delivery Model.
Consultation with the other stakeholders. Drafting of the Standard Operational
Procedures and Business Process Maps for the various functions within the
department. Consulting and advising the process owners in the drafting of
these documents.
191
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/265 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
S4.1/04/05 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 7. 3 year
relevant supervisory experience. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, GRAP, BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS.
DUTIES : Planning – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial
supporting information for planning purposes. Coordinate and review the
necessary financial supporting documentation required for the strategic and
annual performance planning process. Analyse and quality assures the
relevant financial information required in the evaluation and development of
business and project plans. Check and verify the supporting information for
various financial planning processes. Budgeting – Coordinate, review, analyse
and quality assure the budget preparation process. Coordinate the preparation
and consultation for the MTEF budget process. Analyse, interpret and
implement the treasury guidelines for the estimates of national expenditure
(ENE). Develop templates for the collection of budget information from
functionaries. Align budget statements with the annual performance plan,
strategic plan, national and provincial spending priorities. Analyse and interpret
the requirements for the monthly cash flow and adjusted cash flow as
prescribed by Treasury and recommended corrective action where required.
Undertake the planning and supervise the preparation and consultation
process in the implementation of adjustment estimates process. Assess where
shifting of funds/virements is required and possible reviewing expenditure
against budget and make recommendations. Supervise the recording of
adjustments and provide feedback to the relevant components. Provide
information for the preparation of the annual financial statements. Monitor that
all shifts/virements are included in the adjusted budget. Analyse requests for
rollovers and make recommendations compliance with prescripts (including
funds committed but not spent). Reporting – Coordinate, review, analyse and
quality assure the management accounting reporting processes. Evaluate
information on monthly reports produced (variance between actual versus
budget expenditure) and recommend appropriate actions where necessary.
Monitor that all shifts/virements are included in the Year Monitoring Report.
Provide advice and guidance to role players on the use of forecasting methods
and tools. Compile information for the interim and annual performance reports.
Manage the operational processes, resources and procedural associated with
the management. accounting functions: Develop and review departmental
policies and procedures applicable to management accounting (planning and
budgeting). Allocate duties to personnel, monitoring outcomes and instituting
the necessary corrective measures to address deviations from standards.
Determine workflow requirements. Monitor performance of employees and
determine training needs. Control leave and related personnel matters
applying Human Resource procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/266 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC TRANSPORT SERVICES REF NO:
S4.1/04/06 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree; NQF 7 in Transport Management, Transport Planning. Legal
Knowledge would be an advantage. Relevant experience: 3-5 Years
experience in the Public Transport field. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
the Public Transport Operating Grant (PTOG) Framework and DoRA.
Knowledge of contract management, analytical skills, monitoring and reporting
skills, participate in planning and renewing and improving on processes,
Knowledge of the National Transport Act, Manage Human Resources and
ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved, driving license and
computer skills.
192
DUTIES : Ensure proper monitoring of subsidised Transport Contract Management.
Management of the bus services contracts, taxi services contracts and service
schedules set out for the service provider. Ensure that all contracts and service
providers adhere to the NLTA prescripts, safely standards and operational
conditions of the transport vehicles. Provide Inputs into the Provincial
Integrated Transport Plan (ITP). PTOG Financial Oversight role. Verify the
operator of the services providers kilometre claims and monthly invoices.
Monitoring of PTOG expenditure, projections and utilisation levels. Ensure
compliance with PTOG FRAMEWORK, DoRA and the PFMA. Maintain
evidence portfolios for the internal and external audit requirements. Monitoring
of any deviations and under-expenditure risks. Route monitoring and Service
Delivery Compliance. Evaluate adherence to timetables, loading conditions,
vehicles safety requirements and road worthless. Align subsidised routes to
settlement patterns, mobility needs and passenger demands. Ensure that the
service provider is adhering to his/her contract standards and agreements.
Document monitoring finding with photographic evidence, checklists and
reports. Investigate service complaints, community concerns and operator-
related disputes. Recommend route changes and changes in service
providers. Responsible for preparing reports. Prepare monthly, quarterly and
annual reports to management, the CFO, HOD and National DOT. Compile
quarterly PTOG Performance reports and ensure submission to
NDOT/National Treasury. Maintain a comprehensive Transport Risk Register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/267 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER- CSP DISTRICT MONITORING EVALUATION
FIELDWORKER REF NO: S4.1/04/11 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Upington (Zwelentlanga Fatman Mgcawu District)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 Diploma in Public Administration. Diploma in Police Science as
an added advantage. Computer skills. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of national legislation. Knowledge on compliance monitoring
and evaluation. Knowledge of Public Administration Regulations Act on Police
Service. Report writing skills. Drivers License. Traveling will be required.
DUTIES : Conduct monitoring exercises and evaluate the effectiveness of the police
services at various police stations. Conduct unannounced station visits to
monitor the performance of the SAPS Station. Identify the police stations that
are non-compliant in terms of the National Monitoring Tool (NMT) and Domestic
Violence Act Tool (DVA). Identify the gaps or challenge during these
assessments. Draft improvement plan for the station to address the
shortcoming/s found during the NMT&DVA assessments. Ensure that the
Checklist is completed and that the visit is captured in the Occurrence Book.
Develop a District Report on the unannounced visit, the findings and
improvement recommendations made. Evaluate the performance of the police
stations in accordance to Civilian Secretariat for Police Act of 2011. Monitoring
progress on cases reported, indicate if the cases are resolved within the
specific time frame provided by legislation. Evaluate the stations in terms of
compliance to set standards. Assist in resolving of service delivery complaints.
Identify the main areas of complaints and provide advice on improving
performance in these areas. Implementing District Court Watch Brief
Assessment at District Courts. Visit the District/Local Court and obtain or
peruse the charge sheet. Identify dockets that were struck from the court roll
due to inefficiency and ineffectiveness of SAPS in handling the investigation.
Compile report with findings and recommendations. Reporting on the outcome
of service delivery standards at police stations after the proper monitoring and
evaluation tools has been utilized. Reporting on the gaps and challenges
identified as well as the improvement plan that has been put in place. Reporting
on information gathered after the improvement plan been in place.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/268 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S4.1/04/09 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mothibistad (John Taole Gaetsewe District)
193
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No previous experience required. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
terms. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Provide financial administration support services in the
component. Capture and update expenditure in component. Check
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager
for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/269 : SECRETARY TO THE DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
S4.1/04/01
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 with typing as subject or any other training course /
qualification that will enable the person to perform work satisfactorily.
Knowledge and Skills: Language skills and the ability to communicate well with
people at different levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone
etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound organisational skills. Good people skills.
High level of reliability. Basic written communication skills. Ability to act with
tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/receptionist support services to the Director. Receives
telephone call and refers the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant Manager. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
Director. Types documents for the manager and other staff within the unit on a
word processor. Operates office equipment like fax machines and
photocopiers. Provide secretarial support services to the Directorate. Liaise
with travel agencies to make travel arrangements. Checks the arrangements
when the relevant documents are received. Arrangements and events for the
manager and the staff in the Unit. Identifies venues, invites role players,
organizes refreshments and sets up for meetings and events. Processes the
travel and subsistence claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate
from the activities of the work of the manager. Records basic minutes of the
meetings of the manager where required. Drafts routine correspondence and
reports. Does filling of documents for the manager and the unit where required.
Administrative matters like the leave register and telephone accounts.
Receives, records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents.
Handles the procurement of standards items like stationary, refreshment etc.
Collects all relevant documents to enable the manager to prepare for meetings.
Remains up to date with regard to prescripts/ policies and procedures
applicable to her/his work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Director. Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is
understood. Remains abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in
the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
194
POST 16/270 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S4.1/04/10 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Springbok (Namakwa District)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No previous experience required. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
terms. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Provide financial administration support services in the
component. Capture and update expenditure in component. Check
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager
for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 16/271 : MESSENGER/DRIVER REF NO: S4.1/04/02 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Frances Baard District)
REQUIREMENTS : Must have successfully completed Grade 10/Standard 8/(ABET level 4). No
experience required. Be in possession of a code B driver’s license, and a valid
Public Driving Permit (PDP). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the
procedures to perform messenger functions and routine office support
functions like registry functions and the making of photo copies. Knowledge of
the procedures to operate the motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip
authorities, complete the logbooks of the vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g.
petrol) and obtain basic services (e.g. fixing a flat tyre). Knowledge of prescripts
for the correct utilisation of the motor vehicle e.g. how and what purposes can
the motor vehicle be utilised, what is the requirements for the storage of the
vehicle. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is
maintained properly.
DUTIES : Core Driver Functions: Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport
passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents). Do routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all
the required and prescribed records and log books with regard to the vehicle
and the goods handled. Render a clerical support/messenger service in the
relevant office. This would, inter alia, entail the following: Collect and deliver
documentation and related items in the department. Copy and fax documents.
Assist in the registry.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JJ Jafta at 068 344 0742
NOTE : Youth and Women are encouraged to apply
195
ANNEXURE CC
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026, 17:00 PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 16/272 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: METRO HEALTH SERVICES
Chief Director: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Stationed at Bellville Health Park
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate tertiary qualification (NQF
level 7) in a Health / Social Science or related field with at least 5 years’
experience at a senior managerial level. Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior
Management Services is a requirement (Candidates not in possession of this
entry requirement can still apply but are requested to register for the course
and complete it as no appointment can be made in the absence thereof. The
course is available at the National School of Governance (NSG) under the
name “Certificate for entry into the SMS” and the full details can be sourced
from the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. All costs associated herewith are the responsibility of the
applicant). Experience: Proven extensive management experience of health
services. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and willingness
to travel extensively in the province. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and understanding of the National and Provincial Health related
legislation, guidelines and other health related policies and prescripts. Proven
strategic and leadership capabilities. Programme and project management
knowledge and skills. Proven leadership capabilities. Proven knowledge and
understanding of Change, Financial, People Management and empowerment.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership, oversight and accountability in respect of the rendering of
efficient and cost-effective metro health services in support of departmental
service delivery across the metro district (eight subdistricts/four sub-structures
offices) and General Specialist Hospitals services inclusive of Primary Health
Care Services, and Specialised Hospital Services. Facilitate an integrated
clinical implementation support service. Facilitate alignment with departmental
strategic, policy, planning, Information Technology and assurance
management processes. Ensure interface with Facility and Infrastructure
Management to facilitate input for planning and implementation. Interface
between Macro and Operational Management levels to facilitate alignment
regarding departmental clinical strategy, policy and planning priorities,
frameworks and protocols as well as facilitation of integrated implementation
support for service delivery. Facilitation of the alignment of strategy
development, priority setting and implementation within the Metro District.
Health intelligence support to facilitate alignment with Departmental health
intelligence processes and application of knowledge in management decisions
for the improvement of services and clinical outcomes in the Metro District.
Assurance support to facilitate alignment and assurance regarding
Departmental processes and actions in support of the improvement of services
and clinical outcomes in the Metro District. As member of Top Executive
Committee (TEXCO) of the Department actively influences the departmental
strategic agenda, processes and decisions with special emphasis on Metro
196
Health Services. Corporate support across the metro district (eight
subdistricts/four sub-structures offices) and General Specialist Hospital
services inclusive of Primary Health Care Services and Specialised Hospital
Services. Overall responsible for People - and Financial Management of the
Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Kariem Tel No: (021) 483-4304
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/273 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: STRATEGY
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate tertiary qualification (NQF
level 7) in Health/Social Science or related field with at least 5 years’
experience at a senior managerial level. The Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior
Management Services is a requirement. Candidates not possessing this entry
requirement can still apply but are requested to register for the course and
complete it, as no appointment can be made in its absence. The course is
available at the National School of Governance (NSG) under the name
“Certificate for entry into the SMS”, and full details can be sourced from the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. All costs associated herewith are the responsibility of the
applicant. Experience: Proven extensive management experience. Proven
knowledge and understanding of planning and policy development approach.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel
extensively in the province. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
understanding of the National and Provincial Health related legislation,
guidelines and other health related policies and prescripts. Proven knowledge
and understanding of developmental management and inter-sectoral actions
for Health and Community development. Proven knowledge and
understanding of development, strategy management and strategy monitoring
and review processes within a system thinking paradigm. Proven strategic and
leadership abilities Programme and project management knowledge and skills
Proven knowledge and understanding of Change, Financial, People
Management empowerment.
DUTIES : Leading technical advisor and facilitator to the departmental executive with
regard to the departmental strategic management processes, in collaboration
with external partners and spheres of government. Responsible for strategic
leadership oversight and accountability in respect of the Chief Directorate.
Implement and maintain Health Intelligence Systems and data to enable
informed management decision making to improve service delivery, patient
care and quality of life. Facilitate Strategy and policy development, priority
setting, planning and coordination of implementation actions. Establish and
maintain IT solutions and technical support and advice for departmental
processes. Responsible for departmental assurance with regard to optimal
patient experience and outcomes. Lead and coordinate the Chief Directorates
strategic planning processes in a seamless and integrated manner in alignment
with departmental strategic processes. Define and review on a continual basis
the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the Chief Directorate. Overall
responsible for People and Financial Management of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Cloete Tel No: (021) 483 3647
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/274 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY) PAEDIATRIC
CRITICAL CARE
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 per annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 per annum
Grade 3: R2 014 278 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
197
Medical Sub-Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub-specialist
in Paediatric Critical Care. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Critical Care. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Inherent requirements of the job:
Post specialisation experience in Paediatric Intensive Care including peri-
operative care of cardio-thoracic, neuro-surgical and trauma patients is
essential. A valid driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory 16 hours
per week. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills Ability to work under pressure and maintain a high
standard of professionalism. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team Proven
Leadership abilities Experience in supervision of staff and students Proven
knowledge/skills and experience in principles of service planning, organizing,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Within the PICU and 16 hours per week commuted
overtime. Provide comprehensive, high-quality paediatric critical care clinical
services. Conduct ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings, Morbidity
and mortality meetings. Manage and effectively/efficiently use allocated
resources. Effective and efficient administration of clinical services. Teaching:
Undergraduate & post graduate students, nursing staff, rotating registrars /
medical officers and senior registrars. Research: Participation in existing and
conducting new research projects within the department and stay abreast of
clinical developments. Administration: Liaising with Hospital management and
the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Salie, email: shamiel.salie@uct.ac.za Tel No: (021) 658 5111
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council. (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). All applicants must be South African
citizens or permanent residents. Candidates may be subjected to a
competency test.
POST 16/275 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
SALARY : R1 479 723 per annum A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’
appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and managerial
experience in managing Clinical Services within hospitals and health systems.
Engaging with Corporate services including Human Resource, Financial
Management, Patient Administration and Support and Logistic services.
Knowledge of health delivery systems, policies and applicable legislation, and
processes governing resource allocations. Applicable and proven managerial
experience in a Healthcare environment, showing leadership, strategic and
operational skills. Understanding of clinical governance and audit including
quality improvement methods and understanding of the national quality
assurance system. Excellent communication (written and verbal), interpersonal
skills and conflict management skills. Proven computer literacy with proficiency
in (i.e. MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Power BI) with the ability to
understand and analyse statistical and financial information.
198
DUTIES : Overall strategic and operational management, including clinical and corporate
governance of clinical service departments. Ensure the highest standards of
patient care are maintained and develop standard operating practices
regarding admission, treatment and discharge of patients within available
resources. Effective, efficient and sustainable human resource management
and planning within relevant general specialist and highly specialised clinical
departments. Participate in strategies to strengthen the regional and district
health care system ensuring equity of access to tertiary care. Facilitate and
own improvement projects relating to technical quality, internal efficiency,
effectiveness and appropriateness of relevant FBUs, i.e. ensuring well-
functioning and governed clinical center within available resources. Special
portfolios/projects, which may include data collection, analysis and reporting.
Facilitate platform for teaching, training and development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S De Vries Tel No: (021) 404-3178
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to competency test. Please ensure that you attach
an updated CV.
POST 16/276 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (EMERGENCY MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Emergency
Medicine. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Emergency Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid SA driver’s
license. Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision of
staff. Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of Public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure the delivery of comprehensive, efficient, cost-effective, and high-quality
healthcare services that place the patient at the centre of care. Promote a
positive patient experience that is fully aligned with the Value System of the
Western Cape Department of Health and Wellness. Promote and sustain
strong clinical governance through a culture of continuous quality
improvement, evidence-based practice, and research. Ensure the department
remains up to date with evolving clinical developments, standards, and best
practices. Create and support a conducive learning environment for students,
junior staff, and peers at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, as
required. Maintain and continuously improve own professional knowledge,
clinical competence, and skills through ongoing learning and development.
Provide effective outreach and support services to strengthen healthcare
delivery and clinical capacity within the Rural Central Ecosystem, contributing
to improved access, quality, and continuity of care. Ensure compliance with
corporate governance requirements through the effective and efficient
management of financial and physical resources. Adhere to all People
Management policies, procedures, and legislative requirements to support
accountability, transparency, and organisational sustainability.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LA Hodsdon Tel No: (023) 348 1194, Lesley.Hodsdon@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
199
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 16/277 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY) (TYGERBERG
HOSPITAL, PAARL HOSPITAL AND WORCESTER HOSPITAL)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness to travel between Tygerberg, Paarl, and
Worcester Hospitals, and participation in after-hours commuted overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and clinical expertise in
all aspects of Urology, including emergency, inpatient, outpatient, and theatre-
based care. Ability to work across multiple facilities within the Metro East and
Rural West/Central ecosystems, ensuring equitable access to specialist
urology services. Strong leadership, teaching, training, and mentoring skills for
undergraduate and postgraduate students, interns, and medical officers.
Capacity for service planning, clinical governance, and development of
protocols and SOPs. Administrative and communication skills to effectively
manage a clinical department across more than one facility. Research interest
and willingness to participate in quality improvement and academic activities.
Computer literacy, including use of electronic health record platforms (SPV,
HECTIS, ECCR, NHLS, etc.).
DUTIES : Provide inpatient, outpatient, emergency, and surgical urology services at Paarl
Hospital and Worcester Hospital per week with Commuted overtime performed
at Tygerberg Hospital according to the jointly funded service model. Perform
specialist-level urology services, including ward rounds, OPD, emergency
cover, surgical procedures, and after-hours work. Ensure effective clinical
governance: morbidity and mortality reviews, adverse event reporting, audits,
and protocol development in line with provincial guidelines. -Support outreach
services to district hospitals within the Rural West and Rural Central
ecosystems. Participate in teaching and training of registrars, medical officers,
interns, and students rotating in urology. Collaborate with other surgical units
and hospital management to strengthen access, quality, and efficiency of
surgical care. Participate in clinical research, academic activities, and
continuous professional development (CPD). Contribute to the development of
sustainable urology services across the Metro and Rural platforms, ensuring
continuity of care when on leave and supporting skill transfer to junior staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 938-4141 or email: arvdm@sun.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post will
be established on the Tygerberg Hospital staff establishment, with service
commitments shared between Paarl and Worcester Hospitals according to the
jointly funded governance agreement. Candidates must be willing to accept
allocation and rotation across the three hospitals. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time registration as Medical Specialist in
200
Urology with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 16/278 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Infrastructure Planning
SALARY : Grade A: R1 317 108 annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Degree in Electrical Engineering (B
Eng/BSc Eng). Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer.
Experience: At least 6 years appropriate/recognisable experience, post
professional registration as Pr Eng. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver's licence. Willingness to travel within the Western Cape,
and occasionally, nationally. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office). A health-sciences related post-graduate qualification will
be beneficial. Experience in and understanding of the design and construction
of complex buildings. Proven experience with feasibility studies in terms of life
cycle costing of electrical elements, Green Building technologies, technical
specifications and commissioning principles for both Capital and Maintenance
projects. Understand how to interpret existing and develop new Functional and
Technical Norms and Standards. Knowledge of risk analysis and risk mitigation
strategies. Experience in the preparation of reports, submissions and
presentations in English. Sound interpersonal and good communication skills.
DUTIES : Development, interpretation and customisation of functional and technical
norms and standards. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile briefing documentation
and specifications. Investigate electrical engineering installations and
equipment, undertake design work and implement corrective measures, where
necessary. Oversee implementation (construction) and commissioning of
electrical engineering installations. Research/literature studies to keep up with
new technologies and procedures including interaction with professional
Councils/Boards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Maud, email: Chris.Maud@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of compliance with the requirements, including the academic
qualification, as prescribed by the relevant professional council for registration
in the applicable professional category; proof of application for registration as
a Professional Engineer with ECSA and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview.” Appointment is subject to compulsory (actual) registration within six
(6) calendar months after appointment.
POST 16/279 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY AND EMERGENCY
MEDICINE) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
201
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work after-hours duties,
including nights, weekends, and public holidays when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of Public Health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in Rural East in
the Western Cape. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high quality
clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Prof LS Jenkins Tel No: (044) 802-4619
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.
POST 16/280 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTETICS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
driver’s licence. After-hours duties, including nights, weekends, and public
holidays, are compulsory to ensure continuous and uninterrupted patient care.
Appropriate experience in Anaesthesia. Diploma in Anaesthetics (DA) from the
College of Medicines of South Africa (CMSA). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary
team. Interest in developing an academic career. Computer literate.
Demonstrate clinical leadership qualities, motivating and leading junior staff.
202
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia and critical care services to patients in
theatre and the wards at Mowbray maternity Hospital. Pre-operative,
intraoperative and post-operative anaesthetic management of surgical
patients. Delivering critical care to surgical ICU patients at Groote Schuur
Hospital. Teaching, training and supervision of interns, students and nursing
colleagues. Rotating through the hospitals affiliated with the University of Cape
Town, namely Groote Schuur Hospital, New Somerset Hospital and Mowbray
Maternity Hospital. This includes partaking in the call roster for these facilities.
Management duties such as statistics, presentations and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CP Fister Tel No: (021) 404-5001
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
POST 16/281 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY)
Chief Director: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with
the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license; willingness and ability to travel. Full commuted
overtime is mandatory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high
quality Orthopaedic Surgical service with appropriate skills and experience at
district level or equivalent. Proven clinical skills including surgical and
procedural competency with willingness to teach & train undergraduates and
junior doctors. Strong ethical principles and resilience, with excellent
communication, leadership and problem-solving skills. Strong administrative
and clinical governance skills including digital literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery in Orthopaedic Surgery, performed in all areas of the
hospital, including wards, outpatients, theatre and the EC, with relevant
procedural and surgical interventions. Clinical and administrative governance
with effective self-organization, stewardship of scarce resources, participation
in clinical reviews, with quality improvement, accurate medical record keeping
and compliance with human resources and other policies. Teaching, training &
203
research including supervision of undergraduate students, interns and junior
doctors as well as participation in the hospital academic program. Systems
management and domain specific outputs (Metro East Ecosystem) - rendering
of high-quality care in all aspects of Orthopaedics within the district level
package of care, in a professional & collegial manner, aligned with the
requirements & outputs of Orthopaedics in the Metro East ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Brown Tel No: (021) 918 1911
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 16/282 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGER
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Commerce or Accounting or equivalent qualification.
Experience: Appropriate experience and advanced proficiency in Financial and
Management Accounting. Appropriate proven experience in financial
management at management level within a large organisation. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of best practices in procurement in a health
environment. Appropriate and proven managerial experience showing
enabling, nurturing leadership with strategic and operational skills. Knowledge
and proven managerial experience with regard to managing human resources.
Extensive knowledge of National and Provincial policies and legal frameworks
regarding the management of public finances, including treasury regulations
and Public Finance Management Act requirements. Excellent communication
and conflict management skills. Proven computer literacy with proficiency in
(i.e. MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Engage with and live out the core values of the Western Cape Department of
Health. Pro-active management and maintenance of the expenditure and
revenue budgets of the hospital. Implementation and support in respect of the
cost centres’ financial management and accounting responsibilities. Ensuring
timely and accurate financial and management information required for
strategic decision-making. Understanding and implementation of financial and
budget management best practices. Ensuring effective and efficient financial
control measures and internal control systems. Assistance with and
development of revenue generation opportunities and overseeing effective
revenue collection and debt control. Implement Internal controls to ensure
compliance with standing financial regulations and instructions. Manage the
information management function at RCWMCH. Ensure implementation of
relevant policies. Ensuring an integrated financial management budgeting and
procurement system. Effective management of the Supply Chain Management
process including warehousing and finance, as well as Asset Management.
Coordination of the audit process for RCWMCH. Effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AN Parbhoo Tel No: (021) 658-5005
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/283 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (MECHANICAL)
Directorate: Infrastructure Planning
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 per annum
Grade B: R1 030 296 per annum
Grade C: R1 172 184 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
204
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 4-year degree in
Mechanical Engineering (BEng/BScEng). Registration with a professional
council: Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA)as a
Professional Engineer. Experience: Grade A: At least 3 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the relevant qualification
e.g. B Eng / BSc (Eng.). Grade B: At least 14 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience after registration as a Professional Engineer. Grade C: At least 26
years appropriate/recognisable after registration as a Professional Engineer.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence. Willingness
to travel within the Western Cape, and occasionally, nationally. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office). Experience in designing
building services engineering systems (air conditioning, ventilation, plumbing,
drainage, medical gas, fire reticulation, vertical transportation) for healthcare
facilities. Experience in and understanding the design and construction of
complex buildings (e.g. Hospitals). Proven experience with feasibility studies
in terms of life cycle costing of mechanical elements, green building
technologies, technical specifications and commissioning principles for both
Capital and Maintenance projects. Understand how to interpret existing and
develop new Functional and Technical Norms and Standards. Knowledge of
risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies. Knowledge and experience in terms
of fire regulations and vertical transportation systems is advantageous.
Experience in the preparation of reports, submissions and presentations in
English. Sound interpersonal and good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Development, interpretation and customisation of functional and technical
norms and standards. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile briefing documentation
and specifications. Investigate mechanical engineering installations and
equipment, undertake design work and implement corrective measures, where
necessary. Oversee implementation (construction) and commissioning of
mechanical engineering installations. Research/literature studies to keep up
with new technologies and procedures including interaction with professional
Councils/Boards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Parker, email: Imran.Parker@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of compliance with the requirements, including the academic
qualification, as prescribed by the relevant professional council for registration
in the applicable professional category; proof of application for registration as
a Professional Engineer with ECSA and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview.” Appointment is subject to compulsory (actual) registration within six
(6) calendar months after appointment.
POST 16/284 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(5/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 205 per annum
Grade 2: R995 172 per annum
Grade 3: R1 152 594 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high
205
quality surgery for Tertiary and Secondary Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck
patients. Ability to render high quality surgery for pertinent elective
otorhinolaryngology surgery. Ability to initiate own research projects and
supervise research projects. Ability to render high quality teaching and training
in ENT to registrars, medical officers, interns, medical students and other
health care workers. Involvement in academic activities of Otorhinolaryngology
Department. Strong ethical principles and relevant clinical and counselling
skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills.
High level of competencies in the field of secondary, tertiary, elective, and
emergency ENT surgery. This would include Head and Neck surgery.
DUTIES : Definitive care of ENT patients and quality assurance of clinical services in
ENT. Deal with expected share of patient workload per day, providing the best
possible level of care and resulting in satisfied patients. Support more junior
staff in their patient management. Leading and participating in assessment and
definitive care of ENT cases. Teaching and training. Informal teaching in the
clinical areas and/or formal lectures, seminars and tutorials. Participate in the
academic program, congresses, and workshops. -Research and data capture.
Supervision of data collection. Data management and reporting of data audits.
Creating opportunities for research and data utilization for MMed studies.
Writing articles for publication. Clinical governance and administrative
management. Supervision and performance of administrative tasks, related to
submission of reports, statistics, data collection, staff administration and
medico-legal documentation. Clinical governance of ENT surgery. Training
Workshops, Courses and Congresses of highest possible standard to provide
Continuing Medical Education for GP’s, ENT trainees and qualified Specialists.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Grobbelaar Tel No: (021) 938- 9318
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time registration as
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 16/285 : COUNSELLOR GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R 741 102 per annum
Grade 2: R844 128 per annum
Grade 3: R953 094 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professionals Council of South Africa as a Registered Counsellor. Experience:
Grade1: None after registration with the health professions Council of South
Africa as a Registered Council. Grade 2: A minimum of 8 years appropriate
experience after Registration with the HPCSA as Counsellor. Grade 3: A
minimum of 16 years appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as
Counsellor. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel in the Sub-Structure to consult with clients, attend
and conduct meetings and training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and/or experience in counselling, psychometric assessments and
identification of mental health challenges. Ability to think strategically and
analytically, as well as the ability to interpret and implement policies and
guidelines. Work within your professional scope of practice and know when to
refer for more specialized mental health interventions. Knowledge and
experience in providing mentoring and supervision of other lay health workers.
Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, PowerPoint & Excel).
DUTIES : Providing preventative and developmental counselling service and
interventions on all systems levels. Performing supportive psychological
interventions to enhance mental well-being on an individual basis, group basis
or at community level. Performing basic psychological screening aimed at
206
overall generalized functioning enhancement. Provide counselling in
conjunction with interdisciplinary/multi-sectoral support teams. Provide
psychoeducation and mental health promotion. Report writing and proving
feedback to clients/supervisor(s) on interventions. Provide supervision,
mentoring and support to lay health workers. Attend regular clinical
supervision. Form part of the sub-structure and district mental health teams.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Patientia Tel No: (021) 815 8866
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/oral assessment.
POST 16/286 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (HEAD OF NURSING SERVICES)
[EDUCATION AND TRAINING (PNA 7)]
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Sub-Directorate Nursing Education and Training
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1-year
accredited with the SANC in Nursing education. OR A 4-year Bachelor’s
Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171
plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635) qualification
with the SANC in Nursing Education. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum
of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge of nursing education
and clinical placement legislation and prescripts, including SANC
requirements. Appropriate knowledge of provincial clinical placement
frameworks, accreditation processes and Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs).
Relevant knowledge of public service governance, including PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and departmental policies. Sound knowledge of workforce
planning, nursing education and clinical training environments. Strong
information management, reporting and data analysis skills. Sound
interpersonal, negotiation and communication skills (written and verbal).
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, TEAMS, and data management systems).
DUTIES : Coordinate and administer the provincial clinical placement framework in line
with SANC, HPCSA and WCDHW prescripts. Coordinate clinical placement of
nursing and relevant health sciences students within approved clinical training
platforms. Liaise with Nursing Education Institutions, Higher Education
Institutions and clinical services regarding placement, accreditation and
compliance. Monitor and maintain clinical placement, accreditation and training
databases and prepare required reports. Provide operational support and
advice to management on nursing education, clinical placement and workforce
development. Identify, coordinate and monitor resources related to nursing
education and training in accordance with relevant legislation and directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M van As, email: Martha.Vanas@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/287 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: HIGH CARE UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
207
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General. OR A 4- year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Critical Care Nursing
(Adult). Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period above must
be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific speciality after
obtaining the 1- year post-basic qualification or a post graduate diploma in the
relevant speciality. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work public
holidays, weekends, after-hours, weekend, night duty, cover for Nursing and
deputising for Assistant Manager: Nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and
conflict resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function
under pressure. Basic computer literacy. Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Ability to
promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation and
monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, coordinating and
maintaining an optimal, specialized Nursing service as an Operational
Manager. Effective management and utilization of Human and Financial
Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the area. Initiate and
participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the institution.
To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Nywagi Tel No: (021) 7991125)/: e-mail address:
Eric.nywagi@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/288 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH AND SAFETY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC Occupational Health Nursing Science (R212).
OR A 4 -year bachelor’s degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Occupational Health Nursing. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in Occupational Health Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in Occupational Health Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Or a post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Occupational Health Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day/night duty, weekends
and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Assist with medical
emergencies when required. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Practical knowledge of Occupational Health and Risk
208
Management. Practical knowledge of research methodology and Quality
Management. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing Act and
other relevant legislation.
DUTIES : Promote wellness and prevent injuries and diseases. Provision of advisory
services on Occupational Health and Safety matters. An effective and efficient
system/control for the Occupational Health Clinic. Provision of occupational
health clinical services and a safe healthy workplace.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Nel Tel No: (021) 826-5801
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 16/289 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency (R212). OR A
4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171
plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Critical care Nursing (Adult) or Emergency
Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends, overtime and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
Skills to plan, organise & coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving
& decision making. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the Trauma & Emergency Department.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the Trauma & Emergency
department. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support clinical staff with surgical & medical procedures. Utilize human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain & promote
professional growth/ethical standards and development of self & others.
Display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of
duties, while practising within the legislation, regulations and protocols
applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
209
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application/on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 16/290 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY) (X4
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Du Noon Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
Vanguard Community Health Centre (X2 Posts)
Retreat Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212). OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Midwifery. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic nursing qualification in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science (R212). or A post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Midwifery. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts and after
hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health
service-related acts, legislation and policies. Leadership and sound
interpersonal and motivational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Outlook and
Excel). Communication skills (both written and verbal). Ability to facilitate and
promote training. Analytical thinking, independent decision making and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources (equipment and consumables). Render support to Nursing
Services i.e. relief duties and act as junior shift leader as required. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development, compliance to
professional, legal and ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Assist
with the development and the implementation of nursing quality improvement
plans, policies and standard operating procedures. Ensure efficient and
accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and participation
in research activities. Liaise, advise and effectively communicate with the
relevant internal and external stakeholders for continuity of client care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Van Ster Tel No: (021) 7139 754 (Retreat CHC)
Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200 4500 (Du Noon CHC)
Dr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 695 8200 (Vanguard CHC)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
210
basic qualification: Advance Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science or A
post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Midwifery.
POST 16/291 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Gugulethu Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Emergency Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts
and after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Communication skills. Sound knowledge and
understanding of nursing and health service-related acts, legislation and
policies. Leadership and sound interpersonal and motivational skills. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Outlook and Excel). Ability to facilitate and promote training.
Analytical thinking, independent decision making and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources (equipment and consumables). Render support to Nursing
Services i.e. relief duties and act as junior shift leader as required. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development, compliance to
professional, legal and ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Assist
with the development and the implementation of nursing quality improvement
plans, policies and standard operating procedures. Ensure efficient and
accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and participation
in research activities. Liaise, advise and effectively communicate with the
relevant internal and external stakeholders for continuity of client care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Menziwa Tel No: (021) 699-8729
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 16/292 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : De Doorns CC (X1 Post)
Breede Valley Sub-district (stationed at Rawsonville Clinic) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
211
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 Year bachelor’s degree in
nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary
Care Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At
least 10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment Care or a post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Assist at other clinics (mobiles, satelites, etc)
and community (COPC concept) within the SD, when there is a need. A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART
training or experience. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing and public
service legislation. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Ability to promote
quality patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines and
standards.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Van Staden Tel No: (023) 348-1350
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing.
POST 16/293 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X3 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Kylemore CC (X1 Post), Kyamandi CDC (X1 Post), Franchoek/Groendal Clinic
(X1 Post), Stellenbosch Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with duration of at least
1year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care accredited with the SANC (48) OR a 4 year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
212
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Clinical Nursing
Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care or a post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Assist at other clinics (mobiles, satelites, etc) and
community (COPC concept) within the SD, when there is a need. A valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART training or
experience. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing and public service
legislation. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Ability to promote quality
patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines and
standards.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care of all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care or a post graduate diploma (635) accredited with the SANC in
Primary Care Nursing.
POST 16/294 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach, Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade1: None after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and willingness to
drive in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written). Ability to work in integrated multi-
disciplinary teams across platforms. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : Provide Occupational Therapy service (individual patient assessments and
treatment of patients) at Knysna Hospital and Knysna/Bitou sub-district Clinics.
213
Functional rehabilitation of patients including hand rehabilitation. Health
education and group therapy. -Coordinate. assess, prescribe, order and fitting
of wheelchairs, as well as assistive devices. Service and repair wheelchairs as
well as support wheelchair repair workshops. Administration of Occupational
Therapy service in the subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FR Potgieter Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 16/295 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Bothasig CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPSA as a Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA employees. One-year
relevant experience after registration as a Physiotherapist with a recognised
foreign HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration in as a
Physiotherapist with a recognised foreign HPCSA in respect of RSA qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a
Physiotherapist with a recognised foreign HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration as a Physiotherapist with the HPCSA in respect with RSA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration as a Physiotherapist with a recognised foreign HPCSA in respect
of foreign qualified employees whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in SA. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to assist in other PHC Clinics in the Sub-Structure
when there is a need. Willingness to perform overtime and on-call duties.
Willingness to be involved in research projects at the institution. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience working with community health initiatives as
part of Community Orientated Primary Care practice. Appropriate clinical
physiotherapeutic skills in assessment and treatment of patients. Ability in
assessing and issuing Mobility Assistive Devices. Ability to function within a
multi-disciplinary team setting, to be flexible and to work independently. Good
problem solving, conflict resolution, interpersonal, good communication skills
(written and verbal), leadership and organizational skills. Computer literate in
MS Office (Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Responsible for the rendering of clinical physiotherapy services in various
clinical areas. Assist the manager in the strategic planning process of the
Physiotherapy Department. Perform duties in line with the department’s
operational plans. Mentor Physiotherapists are on a more junior level. Effective
utilization of physical and human resources in a clinical area and coordinate all
relevant administrative activities regarding the patient’s clinical area. Assist
with relevant research activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Lloyd Tel No: (021) 818 0940
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
214
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/oral assessment.
POST 16/296 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech therapist. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech therapist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist OR Speech Therapist
and Audiologist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Speech Therapist OR Speech
Therapist and Audiologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist
OR Speech Therapist and Audiologist. -A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as a Speech Therapist OR Speech Therapist and Audiologist in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist OR Speech Therapist and Audiologist.
A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Speech Therapist OR Speech
Therapist and Audiologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Availability to work flexible hours if necessary.
A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Leadership towards the
realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the Operating Theatre.
DUTIES : Provide effective speech therapy service for in- and outpatients by assessing,
diagnosing, and treating patients within a multidisciplinary team. Providing
education and counselling to patients, family and caregivers. Monitoring and
reviewing progress. Documenting patient information, patient statistics.
Attending ward rounds, discussion, meeting with the multidisciplinary team.
Liaising and referring appropriately. Outreaches to other facilities in the Eco
System as needed Contributing to service development by monitoring,
evaluating and co-ordinating existing services, identifying departmental needs,
managing waiting lists, participating in implementing new services and
developing management protocols for improved patient care. Assist with
management of departmental resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SJ Van Wyngaard Tel No: (044) 802-4472
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application/on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”
215
POST 16/297 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Du Noon CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12 (or equivalent) plus Higher
certificate. Experience: Extensive experience in administration and support
services within a health/public sector environment. Inherent requirements of
the job: Standby duties as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of public sector legislation, including PFMA, Public Service Act,
Labour Relations Act, POPIA, OHS Act and SCM prescripts. Computer literacy
(MS Office and applicable systems such as PERMIS, LOGIS, BAS, etc.).
Sound knowledge of administrative processes, people management practices,
financial and supply chain processes, information management, facility
infrastructure maintenance, and applicable public service prescripts. Strong
organisational, planning, communication and interpersonal skills are essential,
along with proven contract management experience. Ability to draft and
implement standard operating procedures. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure and meet strict deadlines.
Strong leadership and people management capability. Ability to analyse data
and compile management reports.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and compliant patient administration and support services,
including reception, cleaning services, information management, healthcare
waste management and transport. Manage people, performance, leave
administration and staff development in line with public service prescripts.
Oversee supply chain, inventory and asset management to ensure audit
readiness and uninterrupted service delivery. Coordinate infrastructure
maintenance and provide utilities oversight to maintain a safe and functional
facility environment. Lead quality assurance and continuous improvement
initiatives to ensure regulatory compliance across support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200-4501
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/298 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE AND MEDICAL RECORDS
(PATIENT ADMINISTRATION AND HOSPITAL FEES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Revenue (Hospital Fees and Patient
Administration) and Medical Records. Appropriate supervisory experience in
the Revenue (Hospital Fees and Patient Administration) and Medical Records
field. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Office
(MS Word, Excel, Outlook, Access). Workable knowledge of AR System,
Clinicom, BAS and JAC as well as knowledge of UPFS, Chapter 18, PFMA,
handling of state money, patient valuables (Chapter 6) and patient records
management and all circulars, instructions and policies related to the above.
Good supervisory, interpersonal, leadership and communication skills and a
strong sense of responsibility and willingness to travel and work after hours
when required. Good organizational and administrative skills and the ability to
function in a team and under pressure
DUTIES : Manage Patient Administration Services and Medical Records with the aim of
improving data quality and patient information and records according to
Finance instructions, circulars, and policies. Manage the Fees Department and
ensure implementation and compliance with relevant Finance Instructions,
Revenue notices, SOP’s and PFMA as well as conducting and attending
meetings and forums. Effective management of Revenue debt and budget
control. Ensure completion and submission of monthly reports and provide
feedback to management. Ensure effective Human Resources Management,
which includes the management of disciplinary procedures as well as
supervision and evaluation of personnel under your control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Kombrink Tel No: (044) 802-4332
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
216
POST 16/299 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (SCM/FINANCE
MANAGEMENT)
Cape Winelands Health
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate and proven experience in Finance and Supply Chain
Management. Appropriate (sound) knowledge of all financial systems: BAS,
LOGIS. Appropriate proven supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of relevant financial
prescripts, departmental policies, delegations, and procedures. An aptitude for
working with financial figures, good organisational, managerial, and leadership
skills, and good interpersonal relations skills. Extensive knowledge and
practical experience in Basic Accounting System (BAS), LOGIS, Electronic
Procurement Solutions (EPS), and Microsoft Office.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management for all Supply Chain Management
functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement
policies and processes, Demand, Acquisition, Contract, Logistics, Asset, and
Disposal Management within the sub-district. Inventory control and warehouse
management – this includes regular feedback to end users. System
Management (ensure system controller functions are carried out as well as the
maintenance of the system) and approver duties on BAS, Logis, and EPS.
Management of Creditor’s Payments and Management of Contract
Administration. Effective and efficient Account Management. Accurate and
timeous preparation of reports and assist with the compilation of the Annual
and Interim Financial statements. Perform data exploration, cleaning, and
transformation to ensure high-quality datasets for financial and operational
analysis. Identify and analyse financial and budgetary risks through the review
of expenditure and operational data. Prepare cost estimates, financial
assessments, and supporting documentation to inform planning and budgeting
processes. Develop and monitor service volume and expenditure indicators to
assess their impact on resource utilisation and expenditure efficiency. Extract,
validate, and consolidate data from multiple financial and operational systems
for reporting purposes. Manage all reporting requirements in respect of
Financial Administration for the sub-district. Ensure audit compliance and
handle audit queries related to Finance, SCM, and render a support function
to management. Manage all People Management-related functions allocated
to the post of SAO within the SCM and Finance components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Wessels Tel No: (023) 316-9602
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/300 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HRM (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district (X1 Post)
Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma /
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in the field of Human Resource
Management. Appropriate experience in the PERSAL system. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to drive
between the various PHC Clinics in the Sub-Districts if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
GroupWise and PERSAL). Good knowledge and experience in Human
Resource Manage. Ability to provide training. Good interpersonal,
communication, presentation and writing skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for co-ordination, supervision and control of component as well as
support to supervisor. Assist with all transversal personnel practices, including
all employment practices, conditions of service and terminations, SPMS and
establishment within the Sub-district. Responsible for the Human Resource
Development function within the Sub-district which includes the compiling of
the workplace skills plan, training statistics and relevant administrative duties
regarding Human Resource Development. Render a support, training and
advisory service with regard to personnel administration and human resource
management, as well as monitoring of compliance. Handle Labour Relation
217
issues which include grievances, dispute resolutions, IMLC matters and the
capturing of Labour Relation information on PERSAL with regard to human
resource matters. Coordinate the recruitment and selection process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WA Phillipus (Vredendal Hospital) Tel No: (027) 213 2039
Mr R Layman (Clanwilliam/Citrusdal Hospital) Tel No: (022) 921 2153
POST 16/301 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in an Information
Management environment in a supervisory capacity. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid Driver's license (Code B/EB). Willingness to travel across the
district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advance computer literacy skills,
especially MS 365, with a highly developed understanding of public health
information systems such as SINJANI, DHIS, PHCIS, eCCR, Clinicom, etc.
Technical knowledge of data management, good numerical and analytical skills
to support the compilation, interpretation and analysis of reports. In-depth
knowledge of monitoring and evaluation of performance data, National and
Provincial Indicators, National and Provincial Information Management
policies, data, processes and standard operating procedures. Good
communication skills (verbal and written), data visualisation, and presentation
skills. Good leadership, supervisory and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Build and maintain partnerships with all stakeholders, including provincial and
district Departments of Health (DoH) staff and non-governmental organisations
(NGOs), to ensure effective implementation of health information policies and
systems in support of district health service delivery. Support sub-districts IM
and external stakeholders in terms of data management, data analysis, use of
data and training. Conduct audits and assessments and provide feedback to
stakeholders. Produce high-quality reports and presentations to facilitate data-
driven decision-making across district structures. Management and
supervision of information management staff, staff performance management,
training, capacity-building, HR, labour relations and disciplinary process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GE Barnardt Tel No: (023) 348-8116
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/302 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An accredited secretarial diploma and/or
administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 (a certificate of
completion should be provided). Experience: Experience in rendering
secretarial and/or administrative support services to management or senior
management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code 8 driver’s licence.
Ability to work under pressure and meet tight deadlines. Willingness to work
beyond normal working hours and travel when required. High level of
professionalism, integrity, diplomacy and confidentiality. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Advanced MS Office skills (Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint). Excellent written and verbal communication. Minute-taking,
report writing and document management proficiency. Strong organisational,
planning, coordination, project management and time management skills.
Knowledge of government protocol, administrative procedures,
correspondence standards, POPIA, MISS, National Archives Act, Treasury
Regulations and SCM processes. Interpersonal, stakeholder liaison and
problem-solving skills. Ability to exercise discretion, sound judgement and
maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Provide executive secretarial and strategic diary management support to the
Director, including managing competing diary demands, meeting logistics and
preparation of briefing packs. Facilitate high level stakeholder liaison, including
interaction with MEC/HOD offices, senior government officials and external
partners while ensuring adherence to protocol. Renders administrative support
services and manage confidential documents and information flow, ensuring
compliance with POPIA, MISS and departmental records management
218
requirements. Provides support to manager regarding meetings, events and
projects, and track project deliverables. Support the Director with the
administration of the budget and track spending. Provide office administration
and people management support, including leave tracking, performance
management coordination, supplies/asset control and general office systems
management. Remain abreast of the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/ policies and other documents and ensure that the application
thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie Tel No: (021) 508-4517
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/303 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: ADVERTISING
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in advertising. Appropriate supervisory
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Outlook, Internet). Accurate typing skills. Good organising and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Processing of requests received for advertising, liaison with various role
players and ensure timeous placement. Quality assurance of adverts prior
distribution of vacancy lists. Administer and coordinate the weekly placement
of adverts in the external media, Public Service Vacancy Circular and
Government website. Ensure timeous activation of posts on the Online
Recruitment Portal. Verify invoices received and ensure timeous payments to
Service Provider. Administer and coordinate the effective and efficient record
keeping of documentation. Follow-up on regular outstanding matters and liaise
with Districts/Institutions/Line Managers. Handle correspondence and
enquiries (written and verbal) as well as providing advice and support to
various role-players. Train and advise Line Managers/Districts/Institutions on
the advertising of vacancies. Supervision of staff and optimal support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Brenton Tel No: (021) 483-5009
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/304 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
line with the duties (key result areas/outputs) of the post. Appropriate
administrative duties within a healthcare environment. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Working knowledge and experience of Procurement and Supply Chain
Management in the Public Service. Computer skills in MS Office (i.e. Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook), good interpersonal skills, organisational skills,
communication skills and strong analytical and strategic thinking abilities.
Ability to work in a team context, motivate team members, ability to manage
multiple priorities, work independently, attention to detail and adherence to
deadlines. Knowledge of the PFMA, Finance Instructions, Provincial and
National Treasury regulations, Supply Chain Management Instructions as well
as the Accounting Officer System and familiarity with LOGIS or Syspro.
DUTIES : Value driven leadership and management and management of the
Procurement section within the SCM component. Ensure that all transactions
comply with legislative requirements (Audit compliance). Management of
monthly, quarterly and annual reporting. Compilation of the annual
Procurement Plan. Effective Human Resources Management. Support to
Supervisor and Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Jacobs Tel No: (021) 918 1208
219
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/305 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Health Warehouse
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
the full spectrum of Supply Chain Management, with the focus being on
rendering general administrative support pertaining to the co-ordination of
personnel and administration matters for the Western Cape Health Warehouse
(WCHW). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code B driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good managerial and supervisory skills.
Good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance
instructions, Treasury regulations, inventory management procedures,
warehouse management and electronic materials management system.
Knowledge of BAS/LOGIS. Knowledge and ability to provide advise the
disciplinary code. Computer literacy in Microsoft Package (MS Word, MS
Excel, PowerPoint, MS Outlook). Skills Development Facilitator (SDF)
functions. Supervisory skills. Skills Development Facilitator duties. Knowledge
of tools for report generation (MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, etc.
DUTIES : Assist and support training and development of staff and be the Skills
Development Facilitator (SDF) for the WCHW. Assist and support recruitment
and selection processes. Assist and support employee relations matters. Assist
and support personnel matters. Support people management practices. Assist
and support performance management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Manuel Tel No: (021) 833 7600/04
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/306 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Personnel and Human Resource
Management as applicable to Housing and managing and coordinating
Pension and Injury on duty processes. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Appropriate experience in all aspects of personnel administration. Appropriate
experience of PERSAL and the relevant functions. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant Legislation. Working knowledge of
all aspects regarding Human Resources. Good interpersonal and conflict
resolution skills. Ability to function independently and within a team context.
Leadership, organization, creative problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL).
DUTIES : The management and supervision of staff within the Housing office, Pension
office, IOD office with a very high workload, Handling of HR Transversal
matters within the Department such as Overseas applications, salary recalls
and management of overtime authorisations for the Institution. Supervise, plan
and co-ordinate theses section with regards to the relevant policies,
procedures, prescripts about Housing, Pension and IOD. Responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation of staff in terms of the Staff Performance
Management Systems (PERMIS). Act as revisor of PERSAL work. Submit
service terminations on PCM. Completion of ad-hoc tasks for example the
answering of audit reports and ordering of stationary for People Management
component. Provide training to personnel and clients in terms of the relevant
section. Provide assistance to clients, personnel, management and
supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DS Jacoman Tel No: (021) 938-5670
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 16/307 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: ADVERTISING
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
220
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in advertising. Appropriate supervisory
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Outlook, Internet). Accurate typing skills. Good organising and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Processing of requests received for advertising, liaison with various role
players and ensure timeous placement. Quality assurance of adverts prior
distribution of vacancy lists. Administer and coordinate the weekly placement
of adverts in the external media, Public Service Vacancy Circular and
Government website. Ensure timeous activation of posts on the Online
Recruitment Portal. Verify invoices received and ensure timeous payments to
Service Provider. Administer and coordinate the effective and efficient record
keeping of documentation. Follow-up on regular outstanding matters and liaise
with Districts/Institutions/Line Managers. Handle correspondence and
enquiries (written and verbal) as well as providing advice and support to
various role-players. Train and advise Line Managers/Districts/Institutions on
the advertising of vacancies. Supervision of staff and optimal support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Brenton Tel No: (021) 483-5009
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/308 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (NURSING RELIEF
TEAM, BTCF NURSING SERVICES) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Brackengate TCF (X1 Post)
Western Cape Rehab Centre (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse OR a
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, overtime, weekends and public holidays
to meet operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to other wards when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of
Nursing processes, procedures and other relevant legal and ethical practises.
Computer literacy in MS Office and MS Outlook. Good Communication skills
(both written and verbal) Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic, Nursing Care within set standards and within a
professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse. Effective utilization of
human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational function.
Participation in training, development, and research within the nursing
department. Delivering a support service to the Nursing Service and the
institution. Maintaining ethical standards and promoting professional growth
and self-development. Supporting and participating in interdisciplinary team
functioning to ensure comprehensive rehabilitation service delivery.
Contributing to discharge planning for integration of patients into home and
community. Assist nursing staff in the application of nursing care processes
and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Fourie tel. no. (021) 370-2489
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
221
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 16/309 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (FAMILY
MEDICINE) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3-year diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, including day and night duty, weekends and
public holidays. Overtime as requested and rotate within departments
(excluding maternity ward) as required, in line with operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively verbally and written. Knowledge
of the nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing Act and SANC
regulations. Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills,
leadership skills and flexibility. Skills to plan, organize & coordinate the service
by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning & implementation of nursing care and the education of nursing &
other personnel. Render advanced clinical nursing care and support clinical
staff with surgical & medical procedures. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self- development. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Campbell Tel No: (044) 802-4371
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 16/310 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (PALLIATIVE CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
222
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3-year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work,
weekends, public holidays, night duty, and perform overtime as required.
Willingness to undergo palliative care training. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Office and Outlook. Demonstrate
an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation and policies.
Knowledge of legal framework and regulations regarding nursing practice.
Good leadership and people management skills, maintain constructive
relationships with members of the multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of holistic institutional nursing care to patients in an
environment that promotes core values and human dignity. Ensure that quality
of nursing care is facilitated cost effectively, efficiently, and equitably whilst at
the same time ensuring compliance to the requirements of professional and
ethical practices. Ensure realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Palliative unit with regard to inpatient and outpatient care. Ensure supportive
role from ward staff i.r.o end of life patients, receiving and referrals of patients,
performing patient assessments, and ensuring patients are appropriately
managed and monitored by mentoring and guiding ward staff appropriately.
Ensure that effective health promotion and comprehensive healthcare are in
place for the treatment of patients and ensure the effective utilisation of
resources to provide quality and sustainable patient care. Coordination of
relevant monthly meetings, liaison and communication with multi-disciplinary
teams, effective utilisation of training and research opportunities, and effective
administrative management of reporting on Palliative care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402 6485
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 16/311 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: TRAINING RELIEF)
West Coast District
(9 Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
Annual salary plus 37% in lieu of service benefits.
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR - A 4 year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
223
job: Willingness to work shifts and after hours (weekends, public holidays and
night duty). Willingness to work overtime. Willingness to rotate within Swartland
Hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Participation in
training and research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Julius Tel No: (022) 487 9204
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 16/312 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (TRANSVERSAL EMPLOYMENT AND COID
MATTERS)
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in COIDA and Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Appropriate experience in BAS system transaction
processing. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Public
Service Act and Collective Agreements. Sound knowledge of Compensation
for Occupational and Diseases Act, (COIDA). Sound knowledge of the
administration of the COIDA systems. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Ability to deal with high volumes of work and to work under pressure.
Computer literacy (PERSAL, MS Excel, MS Word, Outlook).
DUTIES : Administer compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases claims and
liaise with all the relevant stake holders (Compensation Commissioner, private
doctors and hospitals, etc). Maintain COIDA database. Processing of COID
claims on the Department of Employment Labour’s (DEL) online system. Deal
with telephonic and written enquiries. Process various allowances and
deductions on PERSAL including standby, normal overtime, commuted
overtime, relocation costs, parking, subsistence travel and travel concessions.
Process applications for foreign travel and sabbatical leave.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Kwatala Tel No: (021) 483-5711
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/313 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Basic understanding of Human
Resource Management.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution
of monthly pay slips, debt management, verify documents, qualifications, etc.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL. Handle all personnel
enquiries and correspondence (written and verbal). File personnel data,
policies, regulations and circulars and maintain registers, i.e. PILIR, RWOPS,
Appointments, Service Terminations and audit personnel/leave records. Assist
224
with recruitment and selection process. Assist staff, supervisor, management
and members of the Public with regard to Human Resource and Personnel
matters and effective support service to Supervisor, i.e. relief duties, attending
meetings
ENQUIRIES : Ms AL Borcherds Tel No: (044) 302 - 8474
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/314 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a hospital environment
with appropriate experience in Clinicom and Logis. Inherent requirements of
the job: Required to work in health environment where infectious diseases are
treated. Required to work shifts on day/night duty, weekends and public
holidays. Required to work overtime on short notice. Must be willing to rotate
in different departments within the Nursing Component and/or relief
colleagues. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Good verbal and writing skills. Be able to work accurately
and under pressure. Computer literacy in MS Office Suite (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook Access).
DUTIES : Professional, confidential, effective and efficient patient administration.
Contribute to effective patient admission system and register patients by
performing Clinicom, revenue generation, bed management and booking of
patient transport functions. Ensure that all UPFS functions are performed.
Management and administration of equipment by ordering, monitor and control
of consumables and equipment, manually as well as electronic processing on
LOGIS. Professional and loyal conduct. Provide general administrative support
to line managers and Nurse Management. Relief of colleagues. Knowledge on
Information management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Rust Tel No: (021) 860 2504
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/315 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
Directorate: People Development (Registry)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in registry. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render an effective filing and records management services. Handling
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Process documents for archiving and
/or disposal. Operate office machine in relation to the registry functions.
Provide registry counter services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Zothani Tel No: (021) 483-4478
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/316 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (STUDENT MATTERS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing (Southern Cape Karoo Campus, George)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior (or equivalent) Certificate.
Experience: Appropriate experience in supporting and using student
administration systems in an academic environment. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel and work
overtime if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in
Microsoft Word and Excel. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability
to communicate eloquently. Good numerical skills. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
Ability to effectively handle conflict. Self-Motivated and the ability to monitor
and improve own work performance.
DUTIES : Advanced academic administration of higher education and South African
Nursing Council. Responsible for Academic Programme administration.
Effective delivery of advanced clerical tasks. Responsible for all student
225
matters administration and related. Effective control of assets and ordering of
stock.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mottian Tel No: (044) 813- 1993
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to do a practical test.
POST 16/317 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Retreat CHC (X1 Post)
Greenpoint CDC (X1 Post)
Mamre CDC (X1 Post)
Du Noon CHC (X2 Posts)
Vanguard CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allow registration with
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as an Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years recognisable
nursing experience as an Enrolled Nurse after registration with the SANC.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years recognisable experience as an enrolled nurse
after registration with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work overtime. Will be required to work shifts, weekends and Public
Holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational needs. Willingness to render relief duties at the PHC platform with
Southern Western Sub-Structure when necessary. Willingness to rotate
between departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to interpret
basic clinical signs and symptoms. Knowledge of Nursing Practices and IPC,
control measures and practices. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand long hours
and lift heavy equipment. Good communication skills. Basic computer literacy.
Self-discipline. Motivation.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of human and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth and ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Retreat CHC: Ms U Van Ster Tel No: (021) 713 9754
Greenpoint CDC: Ms N Tshongweni Tel No: (021) 421 0288
Du Noon CHC: Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200 4501
Mamre CDC: Ms A Marcus Tel No: (021) 810 4907
Vanguard CHC: Dr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 695 8242
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 16/318 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (MATERNITY/NEONATAL) (X2
POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to rotate to other wards, willingness to work shifts, public
226
holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function under pressure, ability to accept
accountability and responsibility. Ability to work independently and as part of
the team. Knowledge of the Medicines Control Act, Mental Health Care Act,
Child Health Act, and other relevant legislation. Knowledge of the Nursing Act
and relevant regulations.
DUTIES : Provide basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist
Patients with activities of daily living which includes patient hygiene, nutritional
status, mobility, and elimination needs. Maintaining professional growth,
Ethical standards, and Self-development. Assist with effective record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be requested to undertake practical test. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status”
POST 16/319 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (ADVANCED PSYCHIATRIC UNIT)
(X23 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital (X21 posts) and Khayelitsha District Hospital (X2 posts);
Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for
nursing. Willingness to rotate within the various components of the facility
based on operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
nursing processes and procedures as outlined in Nursing, Health related and
Public service legislation, regulations and policies. Skills to effectively
communicate verbally and in writing, function within the team, and facilitate on
the level of the post.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902-8010/57
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/320 : DRIVER (HEAVY DUTY VEHICLE)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience as a driver. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid Public Driver’s Permit (PDP). Valid code C1 (Code10) manual driver’s
licence. Willingness to work overtime, shifts, sleepout and perform standby
duties after hours, including weekends and public holidays as operationally
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Transport Circular
U2 of 2000. Good knowledge of road networks in the Western Province. Ability
to accept accountability and responsibility and to work independently and
227
unsupervised and safety conscious. Good interpersonal skills. Sober habits.
Capacity to work in a workshop environment.
DUTIES : Schedule and plan transport routes for the transport of goods, services and
personnel from one point to another. Ensure accurate completion of logbooks.
Conduct routine maintenance, inspecting vehicles and timely reporting of
defects. Adhere to departmental codes and procedures. Assist the Transport
Officer with basic administrative and general tasks. Assist workshop staff with
the loading and off-loading of equipment and the safe operation of the fixed
crane on truck.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SB Qamza Tel No: (021) 830-3755
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/321 : TRADESMAN AID (ELECTRICAL) (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience within the electrical field within a workshop
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to travel throughout
the Western Cape Province. Physically fit to do manual labour. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal skills. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after-hour repairs). Assist with the installation of plant,
equipment, and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and materials are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Willemse Tel No: (021) 918-1894
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 16/322 : CLEANER
Garden Route District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Plettenberg Bay Clinic, Knysna/Bitou Sub- district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
domestic/cleaning experience in a health environment. Inherent requirement of
the job: Physical ability to lift and/or move heavy objects and supplies.
Willingness to rotate between clinics in the Sub District according to operational
needs and requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication (written and verbal) and interpersonal skills. Appropriate
knowledge of the correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/waste
products and to adhere to policies and cleaning procedures. Ability to do
physical tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning equipment. Knowledge of
legislation and policies of the Department of Health and Wellness relevant to
cleaning practise.
DUTIES : General cleaning, housekeeping and maintenance (i.e dust/sweep/ polish/
scrub/ mop/ clean windows/ walls/equipment/machinery and refuse removal.)
Ensure effective Waste management, Linen Management etc. Effective and
efficient utilization and storage of cleaning materials and equipment. Provide
optimal support to the supervisor and colleagues with general housekeeping
duties and services. Adhere to general hygienic and safe environment in terms
of standards and procedures
ENQUIRIES : Sr J A. Stander Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
POST 16/323 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIOLOGY) (18
SESSIONS)
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
228
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to shifts as required by the
institution. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a team and with
all levels of staff and interest in developing an academic career.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia and critical care services to patients in
theatre and in the intensive care unit at Victoria Hospital. This would include
the following roles: Pre-operative, intraoperative and post-operative
anaesthetic management of surgical patients from ASA1-5. Supervising junior
MOs and interns. Delivering critical care to surgical ICU patients. Teaching and
training. Management duties such as statistics, presentations and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z Fullerton Tel No: (021) 799-1170, email:
zahnne.fullerton@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
POST 16/324 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONS) (14 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 30 June 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R501 per hour
Grade 2: R572 per hour
Grade 3: R662 per hour
CENTRE : Reed Street CDC, Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel
and perform relief duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in general medical and surgical conditions on PHC level.
Experience of South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including drug
resistant TB and HIV in children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
229
etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and
willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Northern/Tygerberg Sub-District, guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Experience in general medical and surgical conditions on PHC level.
Experience of South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including drug
resistant TB and HIV in children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills Computer
literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational
and teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics
throughout the Northern/Tygerberg Sub-District, guiding health care
colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Patientia Tel No: (021) 815 8866
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment
POST 16/325 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (16 HOURS
PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 30 June 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R273 per hour
Grade 2: R318 per hour
Grade 3: R373 per hour
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as either an Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration as an Occupational Therapist
with a recognised foreign HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as
Occupational Therapist in respect with RSA qualified employees. A Minimum
of 21 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist of foreign qualified employees whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in SA. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to do outreach and assist at other
PHC facilities in the Sub-Structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Relevant
skills in assessing, developing and implementing OT interventions. Sound
knowledge of relevant national, provincial legislation and Health Care 2030.
Experience in student training/supervision. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Deliver, coordinate & manage integrated OT Services for a designated area
People management of Rehab Care Workers, students, volunteers. Liaise and
collaborate with internal and external stakeholders. Screen, assess and
intervene as required & appropriate Link to appropriate levels of care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kassen Tel No: (021) 815-8798
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
230
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/oral assessment.
POST 16/326 : SPEECH THERAPIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (8 SESSIONS PER WEEK)
SALARY : Grade 1: R273 per hour
Grade 2: R318 per hour
Grade 3: R373 per hour
CENTRE : Northern Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist and
Audiologist or Speech Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as either a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech
Therapist in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Speech Therapy in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as either a Speech Therapist and
Audiologist or Speech therapist in respect of SA-qualified employees. A
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Speech Therapy in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as either a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect
of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech
therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to do
outreach to other PHC facilities in the Sub-Structure. Willingness to be involved
in research projects at the institution. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability
to provide Speech Therapy services independently and as part of the team.
Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Sound verbal and
written communication skills. Comply with the National Core Standards
requirements. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word and Power point)
and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Assess and manage Speech, Language and Swallowing fallouts in the adult
and Paediatric Populations. Coordinate and manage the Speech department
and services at a district level. Participate in multi-disciplinary team discussions
and departmental and training programmes. Effective and sufficient resource
management such as managing stock and ordering consumables. Complete
weekly stats and service reports as required. Maintain own professional
development, facilitate in-service training as identified. Manage review of
personal performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Kassen Tel No: (021) 815- 8798
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/oral assessment.
231
POST 16/327 : CLEANER (SESSIONS) (20 HOURS PER WEEK) (X3 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
(Contract till 31 March 2029)
SALARY : R94. 86 per hour
CENTRE : Breede Valley Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a Cleaner in a health environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and supplies and
working at heights requiring the use of a stepladder. The ability to do physical
tasks, operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment. Rotate in
different clinics according to operational needs and requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work effectively in a team,
independently and unsupervised, to accept accountability and responsibility.
Ability to handle conflict and the ability to work under pressure. Ability to
operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning, including sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing,
polishing, refuse removal, cleaning of garbage bins daily, toilets, sluices and
drains, cleaning of windows and walls in the clinic. Ensure that cleaning
equipment are clean after usage and securely stored. Render assistance to the
supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and
household equipment, care of linen and serving of patients. Adhere to safety
measures when handling waste. Attend in-service training appropriate to
service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C van Staden Tel No: (023) 348-1350
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
WESTERN CAPE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/home/, via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae, applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 16/328 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER REF NO: 220
Directorate: Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, (SWPM)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
232
Professions as Social Worker. A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP of which 5
years must be appropriate experience in social work policy development.
Project Management skills. Planning and organizing. Networking skills.
Communication written and verbal. Professional counselling skills. Policy
Analysis and development. Financial management. Presentation skills.
Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to compile
complex reports. Skills: Project Management skills. Planning and organizing.
Networking skills. Communication written and verbal. Professional counselling
skills. Policy Analysis and development. Financial management. Presentation
skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to
compile complex reports.
DUTIES : Develop or facilitate the development of policies for rending a social work
service in departments. Monitor, interpret and review legislation, policies and
procedures to determine whether the legislation, policies and procedures are
still relevant and comply with current requirements. Develop proposals to
amend or maintain the relevant acts, policies and procedures and develop new
policies or procedures where required. This includes costing the relevant
policies. Develop programs to implement the relevant policies. Manage a social
work policy unit to ensure that the required legislating policies and procedures
are developed through the efficient and effective utilisation of human
resources. This would, inter alia, include the following. General consultation
with stakeholders and advising subordinates regarding social work policy to be
taken. Management of a social policy unit. This would, inter alia, entail the
following. Ensure that the necessary personnel are recruited and retained
within the budgetary constraints. Ensure sound employment relations. Quality
control of the work delivered by subordinates. Advising subordinates with
regard to all aspects of the work. Manage the performance and conduct of
subordinates and the social work policy unit. Ensure that subordinates are
trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard. This
would include providing mentorship and guidance to subordinates to assist
them to integrate theory and practice, and to develop appropriated skills.
Establish, implement and maintain efficient and effective communication
arrangements in the unit. Ensure that subordinates maintain their professional
registration as required. The development and management of the business
plan of the unit and reporting on progress as required. Keep up to date with
new developments in the social work and management fields. This would, inter
alia, entail the following. Study professional journals and publications to ensure
that cognisance is taken of new developments. Monitor and study the social
services legal and policy framework continuously. Liaise or attend meetings
with other departments and non government institutions to take cognisance of
the latest developments in the relevant field and to provide inputs, where
required, into the work of such departments and other organisations. Engage
in continuous professional development activities as prescribed. Monitor and
study the human resource, financial and general management frameworks of
the Public Service to stay abreast of the latest developments. Plan and ensure
that social work policy research and development are undertaken. Undertake
complex social work research. Perform and or ensure that all the administrative
functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Leukes Tel No: (021) 883 8477
POST 16/329 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: 185
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS.
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification in finance or management. A valid Driver's licence. 5 years
management experience. Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act. Knowledge of the
OHS Act. Knowledge of the Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA).
Knowledge of the Archives and Records Service Act. Knowledge of SCM
processes and procedures. Knowledge of COIDA. Knowledge of facilities
management or logistical services. Skills: Communication skills. Language
skills. Computer skills. Planning and organising skills. Presentation skills.
233
Report writing skills including specifications and submissions. Interpretation
skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for sound financial and SCM services. Ensure effective and
efficient financial accounting and financial management practices. Ensure
asset management service. Ensure effective and efficient implementation of
SCM practices with line components. Responsible for financial compliance of
Public Ordinary and Public Special Schools and hostels. Evaluate approved
budgets and financial statements. Oversee quarterly financial statements and
norms and standards transfer payment recommendations. Monitor
management, coordination and administration of pre-forensic investigations
and implementation of recommendations. Provide logistical support services
including management of GG and public transport, record management
services, facilities management, maintenance, grounds, venue management,
reception and telecommunication services, and compliance with OHS
legislation. Perform managerial tasks including recruitment and selection,
motivating, training and guiding staff, managing performance, evaluation and
rewarding of staff, monitoring information capacity building, promoting sound
labour relations and maintaining discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N.Solomon Tel No: (023) 348 4679
POST 16/330 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PEOPLE POLICY AND ANALYTICS REF NO: 256
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a relevant 3 year post school
qualification. 3 years’ middle management experience. Knowledge of: people
policy and analytics processes; related prescripts; educator/public servant
prescripts; Labour Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995.; Employment of Educators
Act 76 of 1998.; Public Service Act, 1994.; South African Schools Act 84 of
1996.; Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997.; other related
legislation. Skills: Numeracy, Literacy, Computer Literacy, Language skills,
Project Management, Accounting Finance and Audit, Legal Administration,
Managerial skills, Leadership skills, Interpersonal skills, Analytical skills,
Problem solving, Decision Making, Facilitation and Presentation skills, Conflict
resolution, Organising, Good written and oral communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan, organise, control and facilitate people management data, information,
trend analysis and research reports: Manage the analysis, development,
interpretation and report on Human Resource (HR) Information and data
management. Manage the conversion of personnel data to HR management
information and ensure the administration of HR information management.
Ensure the generation of HR information in line with requests. Provide
operational support for the HR information technology needs assessments for
the Chief Directorate PMP. Manage the compilation, packaging and distribution
of standardised HR reports, including: Quarterly District Management Report.
Annual Under-performing Schools Report. Quarterly Leave Report to Sub-
directorate People Empowerment. Annual Exit Management Report. Annual
Report (Part D). Teacher Profiling Report. Manage the deactivation of bulk user
accounts (HR information). Manage the coordination of standardised people
management business intelligence systems: Manage the implementation of
the People Management Practices System (PMPS) in terms of: System
administration (registering, modifications, terminations of user accounts, etc.).
Maintenance and governance of the system to ensure efficient and optimal
functioning. Maintenance of the PMPS Helpdesk. Completion of Change
Control Forms for any notices, enhancements, changes etc. Follow-ups with
the Department of the Premier (DotP): Centre for e-Innovation (CEI) on
changes requested by stakeholders. Training and user support. Ensure
attendance of monthly System User Access Forum meetings. Manage the
interpretation, development, monitoring and maintenance of HR policy
guidelines and circulars: Oversee the development of HR policies and provide
the department with administration and secretariat support for HR policy
development processes. Coordinate HR policy research information and
package this to support HR policy development processes within the
department. Ensure the operational delivery and administrative support of HR
policy consulting within the department. Ensure packaging and dissemination
of HR policy frameworks, guidelines, and circulars within the department
234
through manual or electronic channels. Ensure that the WCED complies with
the Directive on HR Delegations. Manage the provision of employment equity
(EE) and transformation services: Oversee the establishment and
maintenance of the EE Consultative Forum, including the coordination and
secretariat functions. Oversee the gathering of data and compile the Annual
EE Report. Ensure the accurate calculation of the quarterly EE Statistics and
scores used in the recruitment and selection processes. Oversee the
compilation of the EE and transformation related plans, reports and policies.
People Management: Manage the human resources of the component to
achieve the predetermined performance indicators and service delivery
imperatives, motivated, competent, appreciated and performance orientated
staff and sound labour relations: Participate in the recruitment of staff in the
numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the
component’s Business Plan. Motivate, train and guide staff within the
component, to achieve and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively
manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff within the
component. Monitor information capacity building within the component. Active
involvement in the compilation of a human resource plan, a service delivery
improvement programme, and an information resources plan, for the
component. Promote sound labour relations within the component. Actively
manage and promote the maintenance of discipline within the component.
Financial Management: Plan the component’s budget and manage
expenditure, through responsible implementation of policies, practices and
decisions in order to achieve component objectives effectively and efficiently.
Prepare budget required to achieve component objectives. Maintain internal
control policies and processes in line with the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and National Treasury (NT) Guidelines and Best Practice Notes.
Prepares short-term (1 year) and longer-term (2-5 years) budget plans. Ensure
conformity with PFMA and auditing requirements. Monitor revenue and
expenditure for the purpose of sound fiscal responsibility. Project long-term
financial requirements needed to achieve component objectives. Explain or
justify the component budget to other stakeholders and departmental groups.
Oversee or help procure equipment, facilities, supplies and services. Foster an
environment where cost-benefit outcomes are continuously improved. Prepare
consolidated financial reports for presentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2480
POST 16/331 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF NO: 271
Directorate: Recruitment and Selection: Office- Based Educators and Public
Servants
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification (HR, Public Administration/ Management, Industrial Psychology).
3 years middle management experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of
recruitment process. Knowledge of recruitment systems. Knowledge of related
prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator/public servant prescripts. Labour
Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998.
Public Service Act, 1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy.
Computer Literacy. Language skills. Project Management. Accounting Finance
and Audit. Legal Administration. Managerial skills. Leadership skills.
Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (written and verbal). Analytical skills.
Problem solving. Decision Making. Facilitation and Presentation skills. Conflict
resolution. Organising.
DUTIES : Plan, organise, control and coordinate the recruitment and selection process
of institution and office-based educators. Manage the: Issuing of educator
vacancy lists. Issuing of vacancy rosters. Verification of adverts captured by
schools/Circuit Managers in terms of compliance and quality. Capturing and
vetting of adverts to ensure compliance with legislation. Processing of
nominations received from schools. Facilitation of the placement of
advertisements in applicable media. Process of conducting personnel
suitability checks in respect of all nominated candidates. Submissions for
approval by the delegated authority. Maintenance of recruitment and selection
databases. Monitoring and verification of nominations forwarded to Service
235
Benefits for capturing on Personnel and Salary system (PERSAL). Provide
advice on technical, recruitment and selection related enquiries. Recommends
recruitment related submissions for approval by the delegated authority.
Provide a recruitment advisory service to all stakeholders. Monthly reporting
on recruitment and selection progress. Manage the vacancies to an acceptable
vacancy rate. Ensure the provision of support in labour relations cases.
Advocacy campaigns and recruitment training at Tertiary Institutions. Advocacy
and training of School Governing Bodies (SGBs) and other stakeholders. Plan,
organise, control and coordinate the recruitment and selection of institution and
office based public servants. Manage the: Issuing of vacancy bulletins and
rosters. Capturing of adverts. Verification of adverts captured by schools in
respect of compliance and quality. Vetting of adverts to ensure compliance and
legislation. Processing of nominations received from schools. Facilitation of the
placement of advertisements in applicable media. Process of conducting
personnel suitability checks in respect of all nominated candidates.
Submissions for approval by the delegated authority. Maintenance of
recruitment and selection databases. Monitoring and verification of
nominations forwarded to Service Benefits for capturing on PERSAL. Provide
advice with technical, recruitment and selection related enquiries.
Recommends recruitment related submissions for approval by the delegated
authority. Draft Senior Management Service (SMS) submissions for approval
by the delegated authority. Draft SMS appointment letters in respect of
nominated candidates. Provide a recruitment advisory service to all
stakeholders. Monthly reporting on recruitment and selection progress.
Manage the vacancies to an acceptable vacancy rate. Ensure the provision of
support in labour relations cases. Advocacy and training of SGBs and other
stakeholders. People Management. Manage the human resources of the
component to achieve the pre-determined performance indicators and service
delivery imperatives, motivated, competent, appreciated and performance
orientated staff and sound labour relations: Participate in the recruitment of
staff in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the
component’s Business Plan. Motivate, train and guide staff within the
component, to achieve and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively
manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff within the
component. Monitor information capacity building within the component. Active
involvement in the compilation of a HR plan, a service delivery improvement
programme, and an information resources plan, for the component. Promote
sound labour relations within the component. Actively manage and promote the
maintenance of discipline within the component. Financial Management. Plan
the component’s budget and manage expenditure, through responsible
implementation of policies, practices and decisions in order to achieve
component objectives effectively and efficiently. Prepare budget required to
achieve component objectives. Maintain internal control policies and
processes in line with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
National Treasury (NT) Guidelines and Best Practice Notes. Prepares short-
term (1 year) and longer-term (2-5 years) budget plans. Ensure conformity with
PFMA and auditing requirements. Monitor revenue and expenditure for the
purpose of sound fiscal responsibility. Project long-term financial requirements
needed to achieve component objectives. Explain or justify the component
budget to other stakeholders and departmental groups. Oversees or help
procure equipment, facilities, supplies and services. Foster an environment
where cost-benefit outcomes are continuously improved. Prepare consolidated
financial reports for presentation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mocke Tel No: (021) 467 9278
POST 16/332 : GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM TECHNICIAN: GRADE A REF NO:
226
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning and Property Management
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (CICS)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and a National Diploma in GIS or equivalent
qualification. Meeting requirements by PLATO to register as Professional GIS
Technician. Minimum of Three years’ experience post qualification. Knowledge
of South African Schools Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines. PLATO Act
of 1984. Spatial planning systems and norms of Government. Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 200. Occupational Health and Safety Act
236
of 1993 and Regulations. National Environmental Management Act of 1998.
Relevant Provincial Land Administration Legislation. National Archives and
Records Service Act of 1996.
DUTIES : Perform technical GIS activities for infrastructure planning through utilisation of
education information systems: Collect credible data from different sources.
Capture data and update on a regular basis on required formats. Analyse data
according to application requirements. Implement quality assurance.
Contribute to the design of an appropriate spatial database for infrastructure
planning in line with existing Education Information Systems: Document
functional and user requirements. Identify gap analysis. Verify spatial data.
Update information. Capture metadata records. Produce fully functional maps
customised to requirements of users. Compile reports. GIS Equipment,
software, data and products: Assist to validate GIS software. Test GIS
equipment. Assist to validate GIS data and products. Assist to customise GIS
software to meet needs of users. Assist to train end users. Participate in regular
systems audits and implementation of GIS standards: Adhere to GIS standards
in terms of maps and information. Provide updated information in terms of
system audits. Research/literature studies to keep up with new technologies,
viability and feasibility of the geographical information management options for
the Department including interaction with relevant professional development
boards/councils: Study professional journals and publications to stay abreast
of new developments. Monitor and study the education sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional development activities [tools and techniques] as
prescribed and/or required. Update the Infrastructure comprehensive planning
framework of Department in terms of research findings, new technology and
changes in the institutional environment. Interact with relevant Professional
Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G.Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 16/333 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF NO: 189
District Office: Metro South Education District Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year post matric
qualification in audit or financial management. 3-5 years relevant experience.
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa No.108 of 1996. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). South African Schools Act No.84 of 1996. The
Western Cape Provincial School Education Act No.12 of 1997. National
Treasury Regulations. Government Gazette No.35617 on Amended National
Norms and Standards for Schools Funding 2012. Manual Basic Financial
System for Public Ordinary Schools. Treasury Guidelines Preparation of
Estimates for Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Budget Prescriptions
promulgated in Provincial Gazette 6103 of 23 January 2004. Policy to Monitor
the Financial Management Capability of all Public Ordinary Schools Draft 2016.
Knowledge of modern systems of governance and administration. Knowledge
of monitoring and reporting processes. Skills: Financial Administration.
Analytical thinking. Written and verbal communications including reports and
submissions. Motivational. Organisational and Planning. Numerical skills.
Computer literacy. Presentation. Interpretation analyse and conceptualise.
Ability to gather and process information. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the Approved Budget for Public
Ordinary Schools and hostels. Ensure that notifications and reminders are
send to all Public Ordinary Schools to finalise their budgets and to submit to
the District Office before or on the official due date. Manage the evaluation of
the entire Public Ordinary Schools within the Education Districts approved
budgets. Ensure that feedback is provided on the outcome of the evaluation to
the Public Ordinary School including SGB, School Management and
Governance and Circuit Manager. Ensure the update and maintenance of the
Red-flag database and upload to EduInfoSearch. Ensure that all information
and documentation is recorded within the approved record and electronic
content management system. Manage and coordinate the evaluation of the
Annual Financial Statements of the Public Ordinary Schools within the
Education District. Ensure that notifications and reminders are send to all
Public Ordinary Schools to complete their Annual Financial Statements and to
send it to the District Office before or on the official due date. Ensure that all
237
Audited Annual Financial Statements with supporting documents are
evaluated. Ensure that feedback is provided to all Public Ordinary Schools
including SGB, Circuit Manager, School Management and Governance on the
outcome of the evaluation. Ensure the update and maintenance of the Red-
flag and submit the Red-flag database and upload onto EduInfoSearch. Ensure
that all information and documentation is recorded within the approved record
and electronic content management system. Manage the evaluation of the Bi-
Annual Financial Statements (WCED 043) of the Public Ordinary and Public
Special Schools within the Education District. Ensure that notifications and
reminders are send to all Public Schools to finalise the Bi-Annual Financial
Statements (WCED 043) and to submit it to the District Office before or on the
official due date. Ensure that all Bi-Annual Financial Statements of Public
Schools are evaluated. Ensure that feedback is provided to all Public Schools
including SGB, Circuit Manager, School Management and Governance on the
outcome of the evaluation. Ensure the update and maintenance of the Red-
flag and submit the Red-flag database and upload onto EduInfoSearch. Ensure
that all information and documentation is recorded within the approved record
and electronic content management system. Manage, coordinate and
administer pre-forensic investigations. Investigate all pre-forensic, specified
financial-related allegations and irregularities. Provide guidance and support to
investigation teams. Plan and prioritise investigations. Determine the content
of the allegation. Interviews with numerous role players to determine the
validity of the allegations. Collect all relevant documents, information and
affidavits. Confiscate all relevant documents. Compile pre-forensic reports with
findings and recommendations. Send to Head Office, Employee Relations or
Provincial Forensic Services. Follow-up additional information and
recommendations required. Represent the department as witness in labour or
court cases. Submit recommendations to Circuit Manager or Management and
Governance. Follow up on the implementation of recommendations.
Participation in the recruitment of staff. Motivate, train and guide staff. Compile
standard operating procedures for functions performed. Manage the
performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Promote sound employee
relations. Manage and promote the maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.Engel Tel No: (021) 370 2076
POST 16/334 : E-LEARNING PROJECTS FACILITATOR: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF
NO: 196
District Office: Metro Central Education District Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year post matric
qualification. 3-5 years' experience in project management in an ICT
environment. Preference will be given to experience in an education
environment. Knowledge of relevant provincial e-Learning policies, legislation
and regulations including White Paper 7 and knowledge of project
management within an ICT environment. Skills: Advanced computer literacy,
negotiation skills, presentation skills, communication skills, project planning
skills, planning and organizational skills, analytical and systematic thinking
skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage e-Learning projects at district level by assisting in confirming priority
schools for new and refreshed technology, conducting technology audits to
inform decisions in collaboration with CeI, managing the retrieval and
redistribution of technology, coordinating and managing implementation of all
e-Learning project deliverables including project plans, site visits and
installations, ensuring schools with subject-specific needs are adequately
resourced according to approved plans, checking and reporting on schedules
of needs and project plans for technology provisioning, submitting project plans
for approval and coordinating and project managing technology provisioning
for e-Learning and e-Administration. Develop and implement plans, processes
and systems to implement e-Learning and technology provision projects, liaise
with Head Office regarding technology provisioning and innovation projects,
implement and support new and refreshed technology at public ordinary and
special schools, ensure support and maintenance as per service level
agreements, collaborate with Head Office and district units on e-Learning
projects and ensure first-line administrative technical support to schools and
School Network Administrators regarding connectivity, software and hardware.
238
Provide information management and reporting by developing, managing and
maintaining updated databases and records of e-Learning project
implementation including financial aspects, updating and maintaining project
registers and reporting regularly to stakeholders on e-Learning projects,
technology provisioning and connectivity.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Awaldien: Tel No: (021) 514 6700
POST 16/335 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOMMODATION REF NO: 223
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning and Property Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and an appropriate 3-year post school
qualification. 5 years’ experience in project management – preference will be
given to experience in an education environment. Knowledge of Financial and
Project Management experience. Sound understanding of Project
Management methodology. Proven experience in handling / managing
accommodation projects / educational environment. Proven experience in
budgeting and financial control. Knowledge of the policies / norms in respect
of government accommodation. Knowledge of legislation, regulations, acts,
agreements, policies, associated schedules and procedures: Policies on
accommodation, SITA, Public Finance Management Acts (PFMA);
procurement processes, BAS, SourceLink; BEE, WCSD. Skills: Advanced
computer literacy – specific expertise in spreadsheets. Budgeting. Ability to
think analytically and systematically. Ability to negotiate. Advanced report
writing.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and project management of office accommodation for Head-and
District Offices: Define project scope, goals and deliverables that support
business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders;
develop full-scare project plans and associated communications documents;
Effectively communicate project expectations to team members and
stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion; Liaise with project stakeholders on
an on-going basis; Estimate the resources and participants needed to achieve
project goals. Develop and implement appropriate policies, business process
plans, process and systems to effectively manage, monitor, evaluate and report
on all office accommodation projects. Develop and manage an updated
database/record of all relevant aspects including financial aspects of all
projects in line with project management principles: Allocate budget per project;
Where required, negotiate with other department managers for the acquisition
of required personnel from within the company; Monitor budget spending; Draft
quarterly and financial reports. Manage the administrative deliverables of
accommodation projects: Plan and schedule project timelines and milestones
using appropriate tools; Track project milestones and deliverables; Develop
and deliver progress reports, proposals, requirements, documentation and
presentations. Collaborate and liaise with the different role players with respect
to all office accommodation projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G.Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 16/336 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 227
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 5 years relevant experience. Knowledge of South African Schools
Act (SAST). Service Benefits processes and systems. Compliance with
educator and public service prescripts. Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa (RSA) / WCG. Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service Regulations
(PSR). Employment of Educators Act. Personnel Administration Measures
(PAM). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA). Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) Law. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). White Paper on Transformation & Batho Pele Principals.
White Paper on Service Delivery in the Public Service. Human Rights
Practices. People Management. Skills Development Strategy of the Public
Service / CS Educators. New Management Framework. Education Law and
Policy. Disciplinary Codes and Procedures. CORE & Compensation
Management (job evaluation & job descriptions). Collective agreements &
239
resolutions. SPMS. PERSAL. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Sense
of the demographics of WCED. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Language skills.
Computer Literacy. Project Management. Interpersonal skills. Communication
skills. Analytical skills. Leadership. Problem solving. Decision Making.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Conflict resolution. Organising.
Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software: Microsoft (MS) Office
Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power-point, Office 365, MS Outlook),
PERSAL.
DUTIES : Implement and operationalise the appointment and salary administration.
Institutionalise the implementation of various types of appointments in
compliance with all HR related prescripts, policies and legislative requirements.
Appointments: Ensure that all qualifications before the appointment is effected
and regular updating of new personal information on the Personnel and Salary
system (PERSAL). Ensure that the transfer of personnel from other
government departments is implemented correctly. Quality assure and monitor
the approval of appointments on PERSAL. Quality assure contracts of
employment for completeness and ensure a copy of the contract is available
on personnel files. Quality assure progress reports in respect of compliance.
Salary Administration: Quality assure and monitor the implementation of all
employment appointments processed. Ensure that data loaded on PERSAL
corresponds with information on file/nomination documents. Implement and
ensure that any amendments to prescripts pertaining to salaries are brought to
the attention of management and staff. Operationalise the timeous payment of
salaries to ensure that all appointments, acting allowances, 37% in lieu of
service benefits transactions are captured correctly and approved timeously on
PERSAL. Ensure the improvement of qualifications, cash bonuses, recognition
of previous experience or notch adjustments for corrections. Quality assure
official’s appointment date is correct and approve transactions Long service
payments. Quality assure and ensure the correct banking details are captured.
Operationalise the implementation of the following functions: Ensure the
registration of all incoming correspondence (eg. Leave applications). Ensure
the processing of leave forms including temporary (short & long term)
incapacity applications and permanent incapacity (ill-health) applications.
Quality assure, institutionalise and monitor the implementation of the following
processes: Auditing and verification of leave gratuities. Internal audits of
service benefits. Government Employees Housing Scheme (GEHS). Other
general allowances. Service Terminations (Pensions). Long service
recognition. Performance Management. Resettlement. Service Bonus. Medical
Aid. Injury on duty (IODs). NSC payments. Consolidate and report on people
service benefits information (inclusive of statutory reporting). Implement the
continuous development and refinement of Standard Operating Procedures
(SOPs) in respect of all service benefits, conditions of service and related
processes. Ensure the day to day implementation of the SOPs. Provide inputs
towards the development and implementation of work plans. Provide input with
the development of processes and procedures in relation to Service Benefits.
Advise and guide management in District offices and institutions. Liaise with
other components within HR, the Department (WCED), other departments
(provincially and nationally) and Unions (on transversal matters and
grievances). Ensure the adherance of HR delegations. People Management.
Participation in the recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide
staff. Manages the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor
information capacity building. Promote sound labour relations. Maintain
discipline. Guide on policy issues with regard to the functions of the
components under his/her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 16/337 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 228
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 5 years relevant experience. Knowledge of South African Schools
Act (SAST). Service Benefits processes and systems. Compliance with
educator and public service prescripts. Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa (RSA) / WCG. Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service Regulations
(PSR). Employment of Educators Act. Personnel Administration Measures
240
(PAM). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA). Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) Law. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). White Paper on Transformation & Batho Pele Principals.
White Paper on Service Delivery in the Public Service. Human Rights
Practices. People Management. Skills Development Strategy of the Public
Service / CS Educators. New Management Framework. Education Law and
Policy. Disciplinary Codes and Procedures. CORE & Compensation
Management (job evaluation & job descriptions). Collective agreements &
resolutions. SPMS. PERSAL. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Sense
of the demographics of WCED. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Language skills.
Computer Literacy. Project Management. Interpersonal skills. Communication
skills. Analytical skills. Leadership. Problem solving. Decision Making.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Conflict resolution. Organising.
Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software: Microsoft (MS) Office
Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power-point, Office 365, MS Outlook),
PERSAL.
DUTIES : Implement and operationalise the appointment and salary administration.
Institutionalise the implementation of various types of appointments in
compliance with all HR related prescripts, policies and legislative requirements.
Appointments: Ensure that all qualifications before the appointment is effected
and regular updating of new personal information on the Personnel and Salary
system (PERSAL). Ensure that the transfer of personnel from other
government departments is implemented correctly. Quality assure and monitor
the approval of appointments on PERSAL. Quality assure contracts of
employment for completeness and ensure a copy of the contract is available
on personnel files. Quality assure progress reports in respect of compliance.
Salary Administration: Quality assure and monitor the implementation of all
employment appointments processed. Ensure that data loaded on PERSAL
corresponds with information on file/nomination documents. Implement and
ensure that any amendments to prescripts pertaining to salaries are brought to
the attention of management and staff. Operationalise the timeous payment of
salaries to ensure that all appointments, acting allowances, 37% in lieu of
service benefits transactions are captured correctly and approved timeously on
PERSAL. Ensure the improvement of qualifications, cash bonuses, recognition
of previous experience or notch adjustments for corrections. Quality assure
official’s appointment date is correct and approve transactions Long service
payments. Quality assure and ensure the correct banking details are captured.
Operationalise the implementation of the following functions: Ensure the
registration of all incoming correspondence (eg. Leave applications). Ensure
the processing of leave forms including temporary (short & long term)
incapacity applications and permanent incapacity (ill-health) applications.
Quality assure, institutionalise and monitor the implementation of the following
processes: Auditing and verification of leave gratuities. Internal audits of
service benefits. Government Employees Housing Scheme (GEHS). Other
general allowances. Service Terminations (Pensions). Long service
recognition. Performance Management. Resettlement. Service Bonus. Medical
Aid. Injury on duty (IODs). NSC payments. Consolidate and report on people
service benefits information (inclusive of statutory reporting). Implement the
continuous development and refinement of Standard Operating Procedures
(SOPs) in respect of all service benefits, conditions of service and related
processes. Ensure the day to day implementation of the SOPs. Provide inputs
towards the development and implementation of work plans. Provide input with
the development of processes and procedures in relation to Service Benefits.
Advise and guide management in District offices and institutions. Liaise with
other components within HR, the Department (WCED), other departments
(provincially and nationally) and Unions (on transversal matters and
grievances). Ensure the adherance of HR delegations. People Management.
Participation in the recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide
staff. Manages the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor
information capacity building. Promote sound labour relations. Maintain
discipline. Guide on policy issues with regard to the functions of the
components under his/her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
241
POST 16/338 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 229
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 5 years relevant experience. Knowledge of South African Schools
Act (SAST). Service Benefits processes and systems. Compliance with
educator and public service prescripts. Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa (RSA) / WCG. Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service Regulations
(PSR). Employment of Educators Act. Personnel Administration Measures
(PAM). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA). Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) Law. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). White Paper on Transformation & Batho Pele Principals.
White Paper on Service Delivery in the Public Service. Human Rights
Practices. People Management. Skills Development Strategy of the Public
Service / CS Educators. New Management Framework. Education Law and
Policy. Disciplinary Codes and Procedures. CORE & Compensation
Management (job evaluation & job descriptions). Collective agreements &
resolutions. SPMS. PERSAL. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Sense
of the demographics of WCED. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Language skills.
Computer Literacy. Project Management. Interpersonal skills. Communication
skills. Analytical skills. Leadership. Problem solving. Decision Making.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Conflict resolution. Organising.
Demonstrate the ability to use the following IT Software: Microsoft (MS) Office
Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power-point, Office 365, MS Outlook),
PERSAL.
DUTIES : Implement and operationalise the appointment and salary administration.
Institutionalise the implementation of various types of appointments in
compliance with all HR related prescripts, policies and legislative requirements.
Appointments: Ensure that all qualifications before the appointment is effected
and regular updating of new personal information on the Personnel and Salary
system (PERSAL). Ensure that the transfer of personnel from other
government departments is implemented correctly. Quality assure and monitor
the approval of appointments on PERSAL. Quality assure contracts of
employment for completeness and ensure a copy of the contract is available
on personnel files. Quality assure progress reports in respect of compliance.
Salary Administration: Quality assure and monitor the implementation of all
employment appointments processed. Ensure that data loaded on PERSAL
corresponds with information on file/nomination documents. Implement and
ensure that any amendments to prescripts pertaining to salaries are brought to
the attention of management and staff. Operationalise the timeous payment of
salaries to ensure that all appointments, acting allowances, 37% in lieu of
service benefits transactions are captured correctly and approved timeously on
PERSAL. Ensure the improvement of qualifications, cash bonuses, recognition
of previous experience or notch adjustments for corrections. Quality assure
official’s appointment date is correct and approve transactions Long service
payments. Quality assure and ensure the correct banking details are captured.
Operationalise the implementation of the following functions: Ensure the
registration of all incoming correspondence (eg. Leave applications). Ensure
the processing of leave forms including temporary (short & long term)
incapacity applications and permanent incapacity (ill-health) applications.
Quality assure, institutionalise and monitor the implementation of the following
processes: Auditing and verification of leave gratuities. Internal audits of
service benefits. Government Employees Housing Scheme (GEHS). Other
general allowances. Service Terminations (Pensions). Long service
recognition. Performance Management. Resettlement. Service Bonus. Medical
Aid. Injury on duty (IODs). NSC payments. Consolidate and report on people
service benefits information (inclusive of statutory reporting). Implement the
continuous development and refinement of Standard Operating Procedures
(SOPs) in respect of all service benefits, conditions of service and related
processes. Ensure the day to day implementation of the SOPs. Provide inputs
towards the development and implemention of work plans. Provide input with
the development of processes and procedures in relation to Service Benefits.
Advise and guide management in District offices and institutions. Liaise with
other components within HR, the Department (WCED), other departments
(provincially and nationally) and Unions (on transversal matters and
242
grievances). Ensure the adherance of HR delegations. People Management.
Participation in the recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide
staff. Manages the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor
information capacity building. Promote sound labour relations. Maintain
discipline. Guide on policy issues with regard to the functions of the
components under his/her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 16/339 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STATEGIC PEOPLE MANAGEMENT: EMPLOYEE
HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: 264
Directorate: Employee Health and Wellness
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant, post-school
qualification. 5 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of:
Employee Health and Wellness related process, Employee Health and
Wellness related systems and of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with
educator/public servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995.
Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South
African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA)
75 of 1997. Knowledge of other related legislation. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy,
Computer Literacy, Language skills, Project Management, Leadership skills,
Interpersonal skills, Analytical skills, Problem solving, Decision Making,
Facilitation and Presentation skills, Conflict resolution, Organising, Good
written and oral communication skills.
DUTIES : Implement the employee health and wellness programme: Coordinate EHW
services by: Providing advisory services on reported cases; Providing advisory
services to relevant clients; Providing feedback through various reporting and
statistical platforms. Coordinate and facilitate communication and awareness
by: Implementing a communication and awareness plan; Creating awareness
and marketing EHW services and policies; Conducting roadshows and
wellness events in districts. Coordinate and facilitate client liaison
responsibilities with regards to: Liaising with management on EHW matters;
Establish, maintain and enhance the relationship amongst EHW stakeholders;
Acting as a point of contact for complaints from client and escalate challenges.
Represent the department on various EHW structures: Monitor and analyse
the absenteeism reports and sick leave profiles and propose relevant
interventions. Facilitate the procurement of EHW offerings and monitor the
service providers. Facilitate the implementation of Provincial Employee Aids
Programme (PEAP) (HIV/AIDS). Monitor service provided by service provider
and the utilisation of the programme. Report on relevant executed projects on
various reporting and statistical platforms. Provide financial administration
support and payment processing with regards to the EHW programme: Monitor
EHW programme budgets and report on expenditure; Ensure all payments are
made within 30 days period; Quality assure all invoices from service providers
for accuracy and compliance; Review the proofs of payments for all Basic
Accounting System (BAS) payments done in a month; Draw a Document
Control Report for all payments done on BAS; Ensure that the Administration
Clerk submits to Finance all the payment vouchers and the Document Control
Report before the 7th of each month; Ensure database of all payments made.
Implement, facilitate and monitor EHW governance and compliance: Develop
relevant EHW governance and standards. Conduct topic specific research.
Develop and participate in draft/review of frameworks/strategies, standards
and plans. Participate on various committees and meetings prevalent to EHW
processes. Identify and analyse EHW themes and trends. Plan relevant
projects for the department. Monitor and report on compliance of EHW projects
in the Department. Report on relevant executed projects on various reporting
and statistical platforms. Develop and maintain EHW database. Provide
statutory reports in respect of the Department. Assess EHW programmes. Draft
reports on EWH programme impact. Operationalise the provisioning of
reasonable accommodation services: Investigate cases requesting reasonable
accommodation and/or assistive devices. Facilitate disability disclosures with
employees. Follow up on disclosure capturing on Personnel and Salary
systems (PERSAL). Liaise with Health Risk Manager and Occupational
Therapist for Functional Capacity Evaluations, where necessary. Liaise with
various directorates for purpose of placement in terms of reasonable
243
accommodation. People Management: Participation in the recruitment and
selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide staff. Manages the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor information capacity building.
Promote sound labour relations. Maintain discipline. Guide on policy issues
with regard to the functions of the components under his/her command.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R.Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2480
POST 16/340 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 255
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year post matric
qualification. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 3-5 years
administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of WCG, WCED and
general government information systems. Departmental policies and
procedures. Intergovernmental Relations / Stakeholder Management.
Knowledge of ICT strategy, processes and procedures. Knowledge of
Departmental strategic and operational planning processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Departmental programme and project management processes
and procedures. Knowledge of Departmental performance monitoring
processes and procedures. Knowledge of intergovernmental and intra
institutional relations at district level. Skills: Written and verbal communication.
Motivational. Interpretation of prescripts and policies. Organising and planning.
Report writing. Data and Information Management. Computer literacy.
Analytical thinking. Facilitation and Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage, monitor and review the district strategic annual business plans.
Manage the district strategic annual business process. Coordinate the
submission, monitoring, review and reporting on the implementation of the
operational and business plans. DIP Calendars NSLA Special Programmes
(e.g. EMGD, HSIP, GET, FET, Positive Behaviour, etc.). Coordinate the
integrated planning process with government departments, local government,
municipalities, local business, NGOs within the district. IDP engagements.
Joint Planning Initiatives (JPIs). Intergovernmental steering committees.
Community outreach programmes (Thusong Centres), etc. Liaison meetings
with stakeholders. Interface between the office of the District Director and
internal/external stakeholders. NCOP (National Council of Provinces).
Parliamentary Standing Committee. SG visits. Reporting on external and inter-
governmental matters. Analyse, present and report on district data and
information. Provide management and decision making information. Manage
and maintain all aspects of information at district level (Management
Information systems and facilitate ICT services). Enable access and utilisation
of the Education Management Information Systems (EMIS) and related
information Technology (IT) solutions. Oversee and monitor the maintenance
of all Educational Management Information and related systems. CEMIS/SAMI
(including School Information). DMIS. Edu Info Search (EIS). Facilitate
Knowledge and Information Management Systems user training and support
in collaboration with the Directorate Information and Knowledge Management.
Render support in terms of the publication and dissemination of institutional
knowledge and information generated within education information systems.
Coordinate surveys (e.g. DBE, WCED, etc.) to be conducted at district level.
Provide secretarial support at District Management Meetings. Maintain all
relevant district databases. NGO stakeholders working in schools. Exchange
programmes in schools. Partnerships. District staff (contact details), etc.
Supervision of staff. Participation in the recruitment of staff. Motivate, train and
guide staff. Compile standard operating procedures for functions performed.
Manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Promote sound
employee relations. Manage and promote the maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348 4660
POST 16/341 : ANALYST INFORMATION MANAGER: EDUCATION KNOWLEDGE AND
INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF NO: 257
Directorate: Education Knowledge and Info Systems
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
244
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 3 years management experience. Knowledge: Thorough
knowledge of knowledge management and information systems. Sense of the
demographics of WCED. Literacy (2 Official Languages). Numeracy. In-depth
knowledge of Organization (structure & processes). Skills: Excellent oral and
written communication skills. High degree of focus on departmental needs,
customer satisfaction. Quality orientated. Excellent diagnostic skills. Excellent
problem-solving skills. Excellent interpersonal / organisational skills. Strong
attention to detail. Project Management. Presentation Skills. Decision-making.
Computer literacy. Problem solving. Leadership and Planning. Relationship
building skills. Co-ordination. Research skills. Facilitation and Presentation
skills. Strong Decision-making. Conflict resolution. Meeting skills. Interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Helping to develop corporate knowledge management strategy. Identifying and
developing various techniques to facilitate knowledge transfer. Assist with
knowledge management design, development, implementation and ongoing
support and maintenance. Create a process to easily identify knowledge
required to meet organisational needs. Determine the appropriate structure
and format in the knowledge management system, and determine the sources
and acquisition methods for the knowledge. Ensure the continued
enhancements of knowledge management techniques in conjunction with
evolving industry trends and standards. Primary contact internally regarding
relevant tools and technologies. Finding sources of expertise and acquiring
necessary knowledge. Implementing and maintaining the knowledge
throughout the organisation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C. Adriaans Tel No: (021) 467 9255
POST 16/342 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION: SYSTEMS
AND ADMINISTRATION: ESTABLISHMENTS REF NO: 274
Directorate: Recruitment and Selection
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year relevant qualification.
5 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of recruitment process.
Knowledge of recruitment systems. Knowledge of related prescripts. Ensure
compliance with educator/public servant prescripts. PERSAL. Establishments.
Labour Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of
1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. Knowledge of other related
legislation. Skills: Numeracy, Literacy, Language skills, Computer Literacy,
Project Management, Leadership skills, Interpersonal skills, Analytical skills,
Problem solving, Decision Making, Facilitation and Presentation skills, Conflict
resolution, Organising, Good written and oral communication skills, ability to
analyse, conceptualise and interpret policy, PERSAL.
DUTIES : Operationalise and coordinate an establishment administration and control
function: Manage the approved establishment of the department. Ensure the
creation and abolishment of posts on the approved establishment. Control and
monitor use of functions pertaining to establishment control. Develop, analyse
and maintain establishment statistics. Manage the reconciliation of
organisational structures with Personnel. and Salary (PERSAL) system. Check
and verify establishment related information. Implement establishment related
policies and procedures: Manage the development and implementation of
policies and procedures related to establishment administration. Advise and
guide management and staff on the interpretation of policies and prescripts.
Provide accurate and up-to-date information and reports to relevant
stakeholders on establishment matters: Ensure the coordination and
compilation of information for top management. Ensure the development and
maintenance of establishment databases for the department. Manage the
provision of people administrative information (including statutory reporting).
Manage responses and provide reports to Auditor General (AG) requests for
establishment information. People management: Participation in the
recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide staff. Manages the
performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor information capacity
building. Promote sound labour relations. Maintain discipline. Advise on policy
issues with regard to the functions of the components under his/her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mocke Tel No: (021) 467 9278
245
POST 16/343 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 222
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning and Property Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate B-degree with 3-5 years appropriate experience or Grade 12 with
6-10 years appropriate experience. Knowledge of government systems
Knowledge of the government policies Knowledge of the Constitution, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the SA public sector. Skills: Analytical and
systems thinking skills. Conceptual and formulation skills. Excellent
communication skills. Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Management of Leases Facilitating the lease agreement process: Facilitate the
renewal of contracts process Loading of leases on the system and continuously
updating the commitment property register. Issue payment instructions to
finance office: Provide finance with the banking details form consisting of the
supplier details for loading on the BAS system. Provide finance with the annual
template for loading on the BAS system. Provide finance with the template of
all leases that needs to be paid on a monthly basis. Facilitation of opening,
closing and merging of schools as well as transfers of independent schools to
public schools. Receipt of application (whether it's opening, closing, merging
of schools or transfer of independent schools). Draft submission for MEC for
approval. Draft letter for notification. Notify all components/parties affected by
the decision. Planning of scheduled and emergency maintenance. Receive
priority list from District Offices/application form directly from schools in cases
of emergency repairs In cases of scheduled maintenance, the priority list is
forwarded to Public Works for execution. In cases of emergency maintenance,
the Supply Chain Management process must be followed. Facilitate SGB
building projects. Assist schools with the whole process until final approval is
granted. Facilitate the process of the relinquishing of school property. The
process can start in 2 ways: Firstly, a telephonic enquiry can be received
directly from Public or Secondly, an enquiry can be received from Public Works.
Acquisition of sites and leased schools: Facilitate the process from beginning
to end. Regular contact with all role players during the process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Paris Tel No: (021) 467 2010
POST 16/344 : SCHOOL SAFETY OFFICER: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND
GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: 236
District Office: Metro Central Education District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification in Health Safety, Education, Industrial Hygiene, Environmental
Safety or Ergonomics. Desirable: SAMTRAC training course and SACE
Registration. 2 years relevant experience, preference will be given to
experience within the education field. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code
A/A1). Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. Finance including SCM
and budgetary processes. Knowledge and application of relevant education
policies, prescripts and legislation. National School Safety Framework.
National Development Plan. Project planning. Skills: Report writing skills.
Planning and organising skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills. Problem
solving skills. Human relations skills. Analytical skills. Negotiation skills.
Communication skills in at least two of the official languages of the Western
Cape Government. Computer literacy. Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Policies, National and
Provincial School Safety Framework, work procedures and relevant policies in
schools. Ensure the establishment of a properly constituted and functional
safety committee. Assist with the development of a safety policy to protect
property and keep employees and learners safe. Assist with the creation of a
comprehensive safety plan which will include a contingency plan. Define the
role of each employee in maintaining workplace safety including RCL, SGB
and SMT. Determine the type of training each employee needs. Keep up to
date with all aspects of relevant health and safety workplace legislation and
246
communicate relevant changes. Conduct safety and security awareness
campaigns and programmes. Provide a high level Safety Health Environmental
consultancy and advisory service based on legal and other regulatory
frameworks. Conduct regular inspections at Public Ordinary Schools and
Public Special Schools to check that policies and procedures are being
properly implemented. Monitor and report on the implementation of policies
and procedures and drills conducted at Public Schools to DCES School
Management and Governance Support. Conduct security audits, risk
assessments and safety inspections at schools. Establish a full programme of
documented health and safety inspections, audits and assessments in relation
to learner and employee safety. Evaluate workplace safety risk assessments
and consider how risks could be reduced. Establish safe working practices that
comply with legislation. Conduct safety inspections at schools relating to
evacuation drills and emergency alarms, safety risk assessments and standard
operating procedures, employee awareness of responsibilities, installation and
maintenance of safety equipment, and record keeping of all safety related
matters. Provide a list of safety findings and recommendations to the Principal.
Procure safety infrastructure and services to limit risks in alignment with
procurement policies. Assist the Safety Committee with the development of an
action plan. Monitor and report on the implementation of action plans. Keep
records of audits, assessments and safety inspection findings and provide
relevant reports to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Support the effective management of the District Occupational Health and
Safety Committee. Serve on the District Occupational Health and Safety
Committee. Support the Corporate Services Component with the development
and implementation of a Health and Safety Plan for the Education District.
Mobilise and advocate safety and security at district level. Guide the
development and implementation of disaster management preparedness
plans. Report on the support given to the District Occupational Health and
Safety Committee to the DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate Health and Safety Training for Public Ordinary and
Public Special Schools. Establish a structured programme of Health and Safety
Training within the Education District. Liaise with external health and safety
consultants in the provision of training programmes and services. Coordinate
the delivery of training including evacuation plans, fire prevention, fire
protection and hazardous materials communication. Ensure full and accurate
health and safety training records are maintained. Review training feedback
from employees. Maintain a database of employees who have completed the
required training. Report on the implementation of occupational health and
safety training to DCES School Management and Governance Support.
Coordinate and facilitate various attitudinal and behavioural programmes to
support, modify or influence learner and educator behaviour to create safe
learning environments and promote quality teaching and learning. Organise,
manage and facilitate all school based crime control, crime prevention and
developmental initiatives including youth clubs, anti truancy and back
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Abrahams Tel No: (021) 514 6921
POST 16/345 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: 247
District Office: Metro East Education District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Salary Level 8)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification in finance. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 2 years
relevant administrative experience. Preference given to finance and records
management experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant departmental
policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records Service Act.
Knowledge of Public Financial Management PFMA. Knowledge of budgeting
processes and techniques. Knowledge of Financial Systems for example
Pastel. Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Information Management Systems EMIS, CEMIS and Leave
Management Systems. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication. Language two official languages of the Western Cape.
Computer literacy including skills in Pastel. Planning and organising.
Presentation. Report writing skills reports and submissions. Analytical and
247
interpretation skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Financial skills
including bookkeeping.
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Check if the following registers are in place, verify that registers are in line with
policy, prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Approved File Plan. Telephone, Fax and Mail Registers. Stock
Registers for Assets, Library, LTSM, IT equipment, Tuck Shop and Key
Register. Handing Over Register and or Certificates. Learner Transport File,
including WCED 061 and Inspection Form WCED 095. Admission Register
CEMIS. Attendance Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners.
Leave Registers Educators, Public Servants. Incident Register. Disciplinary
Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners. Minutes of all meetings for
example Staff, SMT, RCL, SGB, SDT. Records of Training Staff, SMT, RCL,
SGB, SDT. Daily Decisions Register. Record of SACE registration for SGB
posts. Record of Health and Safety including Evacuation Plans. Assist with the
development of file plans and registers in line with prescripts. Support and
follow up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically
on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration. Monitor, verify, develop and report
on sound Financial Administration Systems. Check that all the following
financial administration processes and practices are in line with policy,
prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Financial Management finance and procurement. School
Budget processes and meetings. Cash, receipt, class receipt and bank deposit
book. Cheque requisitions. Petty Cash. Bank Statements. Bank Reconciliation
Statements. Procurement. Asset Management including issuing and retrieval
of textbooks and furniture including hostels. Assist with administrative tasks
regarding the finance and assets with the opening and closing of schools.
Contracts SGB employment and Service Providers. Risk Management internal
control and fraud prevention. Fundraising. School Fee Exemptions. Transfer
payments electronic funds transfer. Donation Register 18A. Loans, overdrafts
and investments finance. Educator and public servants additional
remuneration Section 38A. SARS Registration and other Tax Obligations.
Municipal Accounts payment of Section 21 Schools. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist and train with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Carolissen Tel No: (021) 900 7019
POST 16/346 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: 248
District Office: Metro East Education District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification in finance. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 2 years
relevant administrative experience. Preference given to finance and records
management experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant departmental
policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records Service Act.
Knowledge of Public Financial Management PFMA. Knowledge of budgeting
processes and techniques. Knowledge of Financial Systems for example
Pastel. Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Information Management Systems EMIS, CEMIS and Leave
Management Systems. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication. Language two official languages of the Western Cape.
Computer literacy including skills in Pastel. Planning and organising.
Presentation. Report writing skills reports and submissions. Analytical and
interpretation skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Financial skills
including bookkeeping.
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Check if the following registers are in place, verify that registers are in line with
248
policy, prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Approved File Plan. Telephone, Fax and Mail Registers. Stock
Registers for Assets, Library, LTSM, IT equipment, Tuck Shop and Key
Register. Handing Over Register and or Certificates. Learner Transport File,
including WCED 061 and Inspection Form WCED 095. Admission Register
CEMIS. Attendance Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners.
Leave Registers Educators, Public Servants. Incident Register. Disciplinary
Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners. Minutes of all meetings for
example Staff, SMT, RCL, SGB, SDT. Records of Training Staff, SMT, RCL,
SGB, SDT. Daily Decisions Register. Record of SACE registration for SGB
posts. Record of Health and Safety including Evacuation Plans. Assist with the
development of file plans and registers in line with prescripts. Support and
follow up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically
on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration. Monitor, verify, develop and report
on sound Financial Administration Systems. Check that all the following
financial administration processes and practices are in line with policy,
prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Financial Management finance and procurement. School
Budget processes and meetings. Cash, receipt, class receipt and bank deposit
book. Cheque requisitions. Petty Cash. Bank Statements. Bank Reconciliation
Statements. Procurement. Asset Management including issuing and retrieval
of textbooks and furniture including hostels. Assist with administrative tasks
regarding the finance and assets with the opening and closing of schools.
Contracts SGB employment and Service Providers. Risk Management internal
control and fraud prevention. Fundraising. School Fee Exemptions. Transfer
payments electronic funds transfer. Donation Register 18A. Loans, overdrafts
and investments finance. Educator and public servants additional
remuneration Section 38A. SARS Registration and other Tax Obligations.
Municipal Accounts payment of Section 21 Schools. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist and train with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Carolissen Tel No: (021) 900 7019
POST 16/347 : INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER: PLANNING AND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 250
District Office: West Coast Education District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 1-2 years relevant
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of an ICT Strategy and operational plan.
Knowledge of Education Information Systems (DMIS/CEMIS/PMPS,
EduInfoSearch, SAMI, IMS). Processes and procedures of CITCOM and
DITCOM. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Knowledge of
Education policies and guidelines regarding ICT. Knowledge of Data and
Information Management. Skills: Written and verbal communication in 2 official
languages of the Western Cape. Interpersonal. Problem solving. Presenting
and facilitation. Report writing. Computer literacy (Advance level). Data
analysis. Analytical thinking. Planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Enable access and utilisation of the Education Knowledge and Information
Management Systems and related information and Communication
Technology (ICT) solutions within the Western Cape Education Districts.
Facilitate and provide access to users within the district and schools. Provide
support and assistance with the development and enhancement of electronic
business solutions to enable effective information, knowledge management
and business intelligence within the WCED. Assist with continuous integration,
development and enhancements to information systems. Facilitate the
provisioning of infrastructure (hardware, software and connectivity) to enable
utilisation of the Education Knowledge and Information Management Systems
249
for the District. Receive, process and submit applications to Director and
Network Technologist (CeI) for approval. Ensure request is in line with
prescripts. Maintain and update the infrastructure (hardware, software and
connectivity) asset register. Maintain EMIS and provide data analysis service
within the Education District. Assist with the facilitation of interfaces with other
ICT solutions within the District. Assist with the gathering, collation, analysis
and dissemination of information. Perform system and data analysis processes
to ensure data integrity within the District. Execute interventions for review and
improvement of the EMIS and related systems with relevant stakeholders
within the District. Facilitate Knowledge and Information Management systems
user training and support in collaboration with the Directorate Knowledge and
Information Management. Implement a decentralised training support process
in collaboration with Directorate Knowledge and Information Management with
the identification of EMIS training requirements within the District and Schools.
Render EMIS support as requested by schools telephonically, e-support or in
loco. Render support in terms of the internal publication and dissemination of
institutional knowledge and information generated within education information
systems. Render support in terms of internal publication and dissemination of
educational information over appropriate platforms. Render support with the
integration and diffusion of Knowledge Management Systems within the
Education District by identifying, updating, promoting and facilitating
institutional knowledge techniques. Liaison with stakeholders relating to
standardised reporting requests as well as ad hoc requests.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Bastiaan Tel No: (021) 860 1229
POST 16/348 : MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT: LEARNER TRANSPORT
OFFICER REF NO: 251
District Office: West Coast Education District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year relevant, post school
qualification. A Valid driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 2 years’ relevant
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of National and Provincial Legislation,
Policies and guidelines, National Road Traffic Act (Act 93 of 1996) and
Regulations, Western Cape Provincial School Education Act, 1997 (Act 12 of
1997), National Learner Transport Policy (June 2015), Western Cape
Education Department Learner Transport Policy, Contract Management, SCM,
the process for the testing of vehicles, information management systems
(including GIS), financial administration processes, Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP) Manual for Learner Transport Schemes (LTSs)
(2015).Skills: Written and verbal communication in 2 official languages of
Western Cape, Organising and planning, Numeracy, Computer literacy,
Recordkeeping, Interpersonal, Report writing.
DUTIES : Administer the Learner Transport Scheme (LTS) applications process for new
and existing Learner Transport routes: Receive learner transport applications
with the Circuit Manager’s recommendation. Maintain a database / register of
the received applications for tracking purposes. Verifies the correctness of the
information in the application including the verification of learner details on
CEMIS. Provide a detailed route map with verified distances and Geographic
Positioning System (GPS) coordinates for new learner transport routes and
extensions / curtailments of existing routes. Request and attach additional
written motivation where learners are transported past the nearest school/s.
Present the completed applications to the relevant district manager/s and
District Director for the final recommendation. Submit the signed applications
to the relevant component at head office. Record management function with
regards to LTS: Open a separate file for each LTS route as per District File
Plan. File all relevant correspondence in route files. Maintain a database of the
expiry dates of all LTS contracts and ensure the timeous submission of the
application for the re-advertisement of expired contracts. Facilitation of bi-
annual vehicle testing: Ensure the timeous testing of all approved learner
transport vehicles. Timeous submission of monthly vehicle testing schedules
and reports to the relevant district manager and head office component.
Payment of monthly claims: Oversee the timeous processing of monthly claims
received from principals / learner transport contractors. Verify the correctness
of each claim and submit the claims for payment. Ascertain whether all
principals / learner transport contractors submitted their claims and issue a
250
written request where claims were not timeously received. Maintain a database
of claims received and processed. Report monthly on the prescribed template
to the relevant district manager and head office component. Monitoring of
Learner Transport Schemes: Quarterly identify and inspect a pre-determined
number of learner transport routes with respect to general condition of learner
transport vehicles, overloading, roadworthiness, valid licences and general
compliance to contract conditions. Inform the principals / learner transport
contractors in writing of non-compliance with an instruction to comply within a
predetermined due date. Attend to learner transport complaints received from
schools and other relevant stakeholders. Conduct unannounced learner
transport route inspections where required. Ensure that the database for
learner transport complaints received is maintained and updated. Identify and
report on cases of non-compliance and follow due process. Report monthly on
the prescribed template to the relevant district manager and head office
component. Supervisory functions: Motivate, train and guide staff to achieve
and maintain excellence in service delivery. Manage the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff. Promote sound employee relations. Manage
and promote the maintenance of discipline. Perform all the supervisory tasks
with regard to the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Bastiaan Tel No: (021) 860 1229
POST 16/349 : INFORMATION ANALYST: EDUCATION KNOWLEDGE AND
INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF NO: 258
Directorate: Education Knowledge and Info Systems
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 1-year relevant experience in information management.
Knowledge: Excellent oral and written communication skills. High degree of
focus on departmental needs, customer satisfaction. Quality orientated.
Excellent diagnostic skills. Excellent problem-solving skills. Excellent
interpersonal/organisational skills. Strong attention to detail. Through
knowledge of knowledge management and information systems. Project
Management. Sense of Demographics of WCED. Skills: Literacy (2 Official
Languages). Numeracy. Presentation Skills. Decision –making. Computer
literacy. Problem solving. Leadership and Planning. Relationship building skills.
Coordination. Research skills. Facilitation/Coordination/ Presentation skills.
Strong Decision making. Conflict resolution. Meeting skills. Interpersonal
relations. In-depth knowledge of Organisation (structure and processes).
DUTIES : Enable access and utilisation of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) and related Information Technology (IT) solutions within the
Western Cape Education Department (WCED) in collaboration with DotP:CeI:
Provide access to users. Facilitate the provisioning of infrastructure (hardware,
software and connectivity) to enable utilisation of the EMIS. Provide support
and assistance with the development and enhancement of electronic business
solutions to enable effective information, knowledge management and
business intelligence within the WCED. Assist with continuous integration,
development and enhancements to information systems. Maintain EMIS and
related systems within the WCED and provide information analysis: Facilitate
updates and enhancements to the WCED EMIS and related systems e.g.
CEMIS, LURITS, SA-SAMS. Assist with the facilitation of interfaces with other
ICT solutions. Perform system and data analysis processes to ensure data
integrity. Execute interventions for review and improvement of the EMIS and
related systems with relevant stakeholders. Execute and support interventions
for review and improvement of the EMIS and related systems. Facilitate
Knowledge and Information Management systems user training and support in
collaboration with Education Districts: Implement a decentralised training and
support process in collaboration with Districts. Assist with the Identification of
EMIS training requirements within the WCED. Render support in terms of the
publication and dissemination of institutional knowledge and information
generated within education information systems: Render support in terms of
publication and dissemination of educational information over appropriate
platforms. Render support with the integration and diffusion of Knowledge
Management systems within the WCED by identifying, updating, promoting
and facilitating institutional knowledge techniques. Liaison with stakeholders
relating to standardised reporting requests as well as adhoc requests.
251
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Adriaans Tel No: (021) 467 9255
POST 16/350 : INFORMATION ANALYST: EDUCATION KNOWLEDGE AND
INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF NO: 259
Directorate: Education Knowledge and Info Systems
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 1-year relevant experience in information management.
Knowledge: Excellent oral and written communication skills. High degree of
focus on departmental needs, customer satisfaction. Quality orientated.
Excellent diagnostic skills. Excellent problem-solving skills. Excellent
interpersonal/organisational skills. Strong attention to detail. Through
knowledge of knowledge management and information systems. Project
Management. Sense of Demographics of WCED. Skills: Literacy (2 Official
Languages). Numeracy. Presentation Skills. Decision –making. Computer
literacy. Problem solving. Leadership and Planning. Relationship building skills.
Coordination. Research skills. Facilitation/Coordination/ Presentation skills.
Strong Decision making. Conflict resolution. Meeting skills. Interpersonal
relations. In-depth knowledge of Organisation (structure and processes).
DUTIES : Enable access and utilisation of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) and related Information Technology (IT) solutions within the
Western Cape Education Department (WCED) in collaboration with DotP:CeI:
Provide access to users. Facilitate the provisioning of infrastructure (hardware,
software and connectivity) to enable utilisation of the EMIS. Provide support
and assistance with the development and enhancement of electronic business
solutions to enable effective information, knowledge management and
business intelligence within the WCED. Assist with continuous integration,
development and enhancements to information systems. Maintain EMIS and
related systems within the WCED and provide information analysis: Facilitate
updates and enhancements to the WCED EMIS and related systems e.g.
CEMIS, LURITS, SA-SAMS. Assist with the facilitation of interfaces with other
ICT solutions. Perform system and data analysis processes to ensure data
integrity. Execute interventions for review and improvement of the EMIS and
related systems with relevant stakeholders. Execute and support interventions
for review and improvement of the EMIS and related systems. Facilitate
Knowledge and Information Management systems user training and support in
collaboration with Education Districts: Implement a decentralised training and
support process in collaboration with Districts. Assist with the Identification of
EMIS training requirements within the WCED. Render support in terms of the
publication and dissemination of institutional knowledge and information
generated within education information systems: Render support in terms of
publication and dissemination of educational information over appropriate
platforms. Render support with the integration and diffusion of Knowledge
Management systems within the WCED by identifying, updating, promoting
and facilitating institutional knowledge techniques. Liaison with stakeholders
relating to standardised reporting requests as well as adhoc requests.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Adriaans Tel No: (021) 467 9255
POST 16/351 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LEARNER TRANSPORT SCHEMES REF NO:
266
Directorate: Learner Transport Schemes
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a relevant 3-year qualification
(Degree/National Diploma or equivalent); A valid driver's license (excluding
code A/A1); Two years relevant experience in an administrative environment,
preferably in Learner Transport Schemes. Knowledge: Relevant Legislation,
Policies and guidelines; The National Road Traffic Act/Regulations; Provincial
School Education Act; National/ Provincial LTS Policy; Contract Management;
Information management (including GIS & CEMIS); Financial administration;
The LTS Standard Operating Procedures Manual. Skills: Computer literacy in
MS Office; Good verbal and written communication skills; Organisational,
planning and numeracy skills; submission/Report Writing, Supervisory Skills.
252
DUTIES : Provide administrative support and assist with: Manage the planning and
coordination of the Learner Transport Schemes: Maintain a register of LTS
applications received from Districts and a Schedule of LTS routes. Quality
Assurance of LTS application and presentation to WCED Bus Committee.
Verify LTS route details by using Google Maps & GIS system. Verify/ Capture
learner and route details on the Central Education Management Information
System (CEMIS). Compile LTS submissions to Delegated Official for approval.
Conduct route verifications where required. Communicate with
Districts/Schools/Circuit. Managers regarding shortcomings identified. Compile
Letters and Memorandums to Districts/Schools/Directorate Procurement
Management regarding the outcome of LTS applications. Capture
Learners/Application outcomes on EduInfoSearch system. Monitor LTS
contract duration with a view to request the re-advertisement of services by the
Directorate: Procurement Management. Ensure the creation and maintenance
of a separate file for each LTS route. Attend to LTS enquiries from all
stakeholders. Supervision: Perform a supervisory function: Motivate, train and
guide staff. Manage staff performance and evaluation. Promote sound
employee relations. Manage/ promote the maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Lackay Tel No. (021) 467 2327
POST 16/352 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LEARNER TRANSPORT SCHEMES REF NO:
267
Directorate: Learner Transport Schemes
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a relevant 3-year qualification
(Degree/National Diploma or equivalent); A valid driver's license (excluding
code A/A1); Two years relevant experience in an administrative environment,
preferably in Learner Transport Schemes. Knowledge: Relevant Legislation,
Policies and guidelines; The National Road Traffic Act/Regulations; Provincial
School Education Act; National/ Provincial LTS Policy; Contract Management;
Information management (including GIS & CEMIS); Financial administration;
The LTS Standard Operating Procedures Manual. Skills: Computer literacy in
MS Office; Good verbal and written communication skills; Organisational,
planning and numeracy skills; submission/Report Writing, Supervisory Skills.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support and assist with: Manage the planning and
coordination of the Learner Transport Schemes: Maintain a register of LTS
applications received from Districts and a Schedule of LTS routes. Quality
Assurance of LTS application and presentation to WCED Bus Committee.
Verify LTS route details by using Google Maps & GIS system. Verify/ Capture
learner and route details on the Central Education Management Information
System (CEMIS). Compile LTS submissions to Delegated Official for approval.
Conduct route verifications where required. Communicate with
Districts/Schools/Circuit. Managers regarding shortcomings identified. Compile
Letters and Memorandums to Districts/Schools/Directorate Procurement
Management regarding the outcome of LTS applications. Capture
Learners/Application outcomes on EduInfoSearch system. Monitor LTS
contract duration with a view to request the re-advertisement of services by the
Directorate: Procurement Management. Ensure the creation and maintenance
of a separate file for each LTS route. Attend to LTS enquiries from all
stakeholders. Supervision: Perform a supervisory function: Motivate, train and
guide staff. Manage staff performance and evaluation. Promote sound
employee relations. Manage/ promote the maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Lackay Tel No: (021) 467 2327
POST 16/353 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: EDITORIAL AND LANGUAGE SERVICE REF
NO: 263
Directorate: Communication
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year post-school qualification
(NQF 6) in communication and translation studies, linguistics or related studies.
1 – 2 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge of Communication policy and
strategies. Profound working knowledge of at least two official languages of the
Western Cape. Editing and translation of documents. Skills: Interpret and apply
253
relevant policies and procedures. Problem solving skills. Facilitation skills.
Presentation skills. Communication (written and verbal). Organising. Analytical
thinking. Project management. Research. Computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Provide language and translation services to the Department: Provide input
into the development and implementation of necessary policies and
procedures with regard to departmental language services. Translate and edit
documents in the official languages. Liaise with Department of Cultural Affairs
and Sport (DCAS) for outsourced translation of documents. Quality-check all
documents and products managed by the unit. Perform administrative tasks
eg. record keeping. Participate in the development of standard terminology for
the Department: Provide language advisory services to the Department.
Develop and record terminology. Compile and maintain databases relating to
language matters. Compile lists of terms requiring standardization during the
translation process. Participate in the Terminology Forum to develop proposed
standardised terms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Merton Tel No: (021) 467 2707
POST 16/354 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE, ADMIN, GOVERNANCE:
INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE: NON-
CURRICULUM REF NO: 268
Directorate: Management And Governance (Non-Curriculum)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a relevant B-Degree. 1 year
relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of South African Schools Act and
the FET Act. Knowledge of modern systems of governance and administration.
Knowledge of public policy making processes. Knowledge of the policies of the
government of the day. Knowledge of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South Africa public sector. Knowledge of global,
regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape. Knowledge of Constitutional, legal
and institutional arrangements governing the South Africa public sector.
Knowledge of communication, media management, public relations, public
participation and public education. Knowledge of project management
processes. Skills: Analytical and systems thinking skills. Conceptual and
formulation skills. Team building and strong interpersonal skills. Excellent
communication skills. Outstanding planning, organizing and people
management skills. Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Develop policy and guidelines on management and governance issues in
respect of Financial Management and Governance, Procurement
Administration and Governance, Institution Administration including HRM and
Office Administration and Governance, Learner Administration and
Governance, and Physical Resource Administration and Governance. Provide
policy and guidelines for building capacity of SGBs and RCLs. Develop
systems, standards and practices for institutional management and
governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N.Petersen Tel No: (023) 348 4601
POST 16/355 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS:
MISCONDUCT, GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES REF NO: 269
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post-school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: Labour relations Act
(LRA) 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act
1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment
Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. All applicable resolutions and collective agreements
pertaining to educators and public servants. Good understanding of modern
labour relations management/ development and its processes, methods and
techniques. Knowledge of the requirements of all labour-related legislation.
Knowledge of grievances, disciplinary and misconduct procedures. Knowledge
of negotiations. Knowledge of other related legislation. Skills: Numeracy,
Literacy, Computer Literacy, Language skills, Project Management,
Interpersonal skills, Communication skills (written and verbal), Analytical skills,
254
Problem solving, Decision Making, Facilitation and Presentation skills, Conflict
resolution, Organising.
DUTIES : Render effective misconduct, grievances, disputes and case matters:
Misconduct: Handle misconduct cases through investigation, initiation, and
liaising with organised labour; Compiling of submissions to obtain mandate to
institute disciplinary action and/or the finalisation thereof; Assist in securing a
presiding officer to be appointed, where necessary; Maintain a management
plan to ensure compliance with timeframes; Deal with all types of enquiries
relating to misconduct; Provide guidance on misconduct matters; Perform
general administrative duties; Capture cases on Personnel and Salary System
(PERSAL); Stay abreast with latest case law and policies. Grievances:
Facilitate the grievance procedure in terms of the rules for the handling of
complaints and grievances for the public service and educators; Monitor time
frames and follow-up on outstanding grievances with designated line
managers’ delegated to deal with such matters; Finalise grievance based on
the outcome report received from the respective line manager; Provide
guidance and deal with all types of enquiries relating to grievance, legal and/or
financial implications of personnel related matters; Perform general
administrative duties; Capture cases on PERSAL. Disputes: Obtain
background information on the dispute; Analyse the dispute referral in order to
prepare for the conciliation and/or arbitration; Keep abreast with latest case
law/collective agreements/regulatory framework in order to prepare
submission and obtain a mandate to defend and/or settle a dispute; Represent
the department in the dispute resolution process during conciliation and/or
arbitration for both educators and public servants; Deal with all types of
enquires relating to disputes; Liaise with organised labour and representatives;
Perform general administrative duties; Capture cases on PERSAL. ER case
matters: Prepare and support role players with the relevant documents for
labour court case i.e. review applications or similar; Monitor and check the
adherence to the respective timeframes for the respective court procedures;
Keep diary for consultations with counsel and court dates; Implementation of
court judgements; Maintain and update a monthly record of court cases.
Execute Collective Bargaining and Training services: Assist in collective
bargaining consultations with education unions: Provincial Education Labour
Relations Chamber (PELRC): Arrange caucus meetings and log arrangements
for PELRC, Provide feedback report to Head of Department (HoD), Compile
follow up on action list; and, File documents and update statistics Task Teams:
Caucus meetings for task teams and log arrangements; Compile minutes and
action lists for task teams; and Follow up actions of each task teams. Assist in
collective bargaining consultations with public service unions: Multi-laterals
and bi-lateral meetings with unions: Arrange caucus meetings and log
arrangements; Compile minutes of meeting and action lists; and Follow up and
compile notices and reminders. Assist with secondments and time-off for union
secondments: Compile submissions to HoD for approval with letters to role
players; Send approved/signed letters to various role players; and File
documents/letters, etc. Execute recruitment and selection notices to unions.
Send notices to unions of adverts. Assist in the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) consultation processes including: Execute administrative
duties; Logistical arrangements; and; Notices and reminders to stakeholders.
Execute training and support: Identify training needs for educators and public
servants; Assist with the formulation of training programmes; Conduct training
sessions on labour relations matters; Procurement of training material and
presenters; Evaluate trainers and training material; and Perform general
administrative duties. Deal with all types of enquiries relating to collective
bargaining and training. Keep a monthly record of cases (statistics). Assist with
collective bargaining matters. Perform advisory and policy research services.
Keeping abreast with updated legislation and the latest relevant case law in the
Labour relations field; o Gather information on the latest amended relevant
legislation, case law, articles, law journals etc.; and Provide guidance to staff
on the latest developments. Gather and compile information on topical matters
affecting WCED. Assist the sub-directorate with: Gathering of information on
topical matters arising from arbitration awards; and Update staff on the latest
developments in the labour relations/law field. Perform all activities related to
data-capturing, information processing, analysis, sharing and reporting relating
to the functions of the component. Gather information and provide trend
analysis on all employee related matters. Compile a register and maintain
record of misconduct cases such as Remuneration outside of the public service
255
(RWOPS), appeals, legal opinions, court cases, and the provision of labour
relations advisory services to the WCED. Handle and compile appeal
documents for the Provincial Minister (Educators), and Appeal Authority (Public
servants): Prepare appeal bundles from all the relevant disciplinary hearings
documents and the recordings; Submit appeals to the Provincial Minister and
Appeal Authority; Follow up on outstanding appeals from said authorities; and
Update and maintain the case management system. Keep a monthly record of
appeal statistics. Execute administrative support to the specific functions:
Apply efficient management and protection of sensitive and confidential
information coming in and going out the sub-directorate in compliance with the
applicable prescripts. Represent the employer at conciliation/arbitration
meetings and act as Presiding Officer in disciplinary hearings. Assist with
advice to management on all aspects of labour relations. Act as departmental
representative in formal disciplinary hearings (educators and public servants).
Contribute to the operational objectives of the directorate. Promote sound
labour relations in the public education sector. Keep up to date with matters
relating to grievances, disputes and misconduct cases. Assist with
procurement, inventory and general finance processes. Draft submissions and
memoranda on various challenges. Redistribute correspondence and redirect
enquiries to the relevant officials. Keep record and follow up on enquiries and
correspondence. Direct general inquiries from the public, media and
administration. Check and verify outgoing documentation. Assist with diary
management by coordinating meetings and appointments. Prepare all relevant
documentations for appointments and meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Esau Tel No: (021) 467 2362
POST 16/356 : EMPLOYEE RELATIONS PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS:
MISCONDUCT, GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES REF NO: 270
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post-school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: Labour relations Act
(LRA) 66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act
1994. South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment
Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. All applicable resolutions and collective agreements
pertaining to educators and public servants. Good understanding of modern
labour relations management/ development and its processes, methods and
techniques. Knowledge of the requirements of all labour-related legislation.
Knowledge of grievances, disciplinary and misconduct procedures. Knowledge
of negotiations. Knowledge of other related legislation. Skills: Numeracy,
Literacy, Computer Literacy, Language skills, Project Management,
Interpersonal skills, Communication skills (written and verbal), Analytical skills,
Problem solving, Decision Making, Facilitation and Presentation skills, Conflict
resolution, Organising.
DUTIES : Render effective misconduct, grievances, disputes and case matters:
Misconduct: Handle misconduct cases through investigation, initiation, and
liaising with organised labour; Compiling of submissions to obtain mandate to
institute disciplinary action and/or the finalisation thereof; Assist in securing a
presiding officer to be appointed, where necessary; Maintain a management
plan to ensure compliance with timeframes; Deal with all types of enquiries
relating to misconduct; Provide guidance on misconduct matters; Perform
general administrative duties; Capture cases on Personnel and Salary System
(PERSAL); Stay abreast with latest case law and policies. Grievances:
Facilitate the grievance procedure in terms of the rules for the handling of
complaints and grievances for the public service and educators; Monitor time
frames and follow-up on outstanding grievances with designated line
managers’ delegated to deal with such matters; Finalise grievance based on
the outcome report received from the respective line manager; Provide
guidance and deal with all types of enquiries relating to grievance, legal and/or
financial implications of personnel related matters; Perform general
administrative duties; Capture cases on PERSAL. Disputes: Obtain
background information on the dispute; Analyse the dispute referral in order to
prepare for the conciliation and/or arbitration; Keep abreast with latest case
law/collective agreements/regulatory framework in order to prepare
submission and obtain a mandate to defend and/or settle a dispute; Represent
256
the department in the dispute resolution process during conciliation and/or
arbitration for both educators and public servants; Deal with all types of
enquires relating to disputes; Liaise with organised labour and representatives;
Perform general administrative duties; Capture cases on PERSAL. ER case
matters: Prepare and support role players with the relevant documents for
labour court case i.e. review applications or similar; Monitor and check the
adherence to the respective timeframes for the respective court procedures;
Keep diary for consultations with counsel and court dates; Implementation of
court judgements; Maintain and update a monthly record of court cases.
Execute Collective Bargaining and Training services: Assist in collective
bargaining consultations with education unions: Provincial Education Labour
Relations Chamber (PELRC): Arrange caucus meetings and log arrangements
for PELRC, Provide feedback report to Head of Department (HoD), Compile
follow up on action list; and, File documents and update statistics Task Teams:
Caucus meetings for task teams and log arrangements; Compile minutes and
action lists for task teams; and Follow up actions of each task teams. Assist in
collective bargaining consultations with public service unions: Multi-laterals
and bi-lateral meetings with unions: Arrange caucus meetings and log
arrangements; Compile minutes of meeting and action lists; and Follow up and
compile notices and reminders. Assist with secondments and time-off for union
secondments: Compile submissions to HoD for approval with letters to role
players; Send approved/signed letters to various role players; and File
documents/letters, etc. Execute recruitment and selection notices to unions.
Send notices to unions of adverts. Assist in the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) consultation processes including: Execute administrative
duties; Logistical arrangements; and; Notices and reminders to stakeholders.
Execute training and support: Identify training needs for educators and public
servants; Assist with the formulation of training programmes; Conduct training
sessions on labour relations matters; Procurement of training material and
presenters; Evaluate trainers and training material; and Perform general
administrative duties. Deal with all types of enquiries relating to collective
bargaining and training. Keep a monthly record of cases (statistics). Assist with
collective bargaining matters. Perform advisory and policy research services.
Keeping abreast with updated legislation and the latest relevant case law in the
Labour relations field; o Gather information on the latest amended relevant
legislation, case law, articles, law journals etc.; and Provide guidance to staff
on the latest developments. Gather and compile information on topical matters
affecting WCED. Assist the sub-directorate with: Gathering of information on
topical matters arising from arbitration awards; and Update staff on the latest
developments in the labour relations/law field. Perform all activities related to
data-capturing, information processing, analysis, sharing and reporting relating
to the functions of the component. Gather information and provide trend
analysis on all employee related matters. Compile a register and maintain
record of misconduct cases such as Remuneration outside of the public service
(RWOPS), appeals, legal opinions, court cases, and the provision of labour
relations advisory services to the WCED. Handle and compile appeal
documents for the Provincial Minister (Educators), and Appeal Authority (Public
servants): Prepare appeal bundles from all the relevant disciplinary hearings
documents and the recordings; Submit appeals to the Provincial Minister and
Appeal Authority; Follow up on outstanding appeals from said authorities; and
Update and maintain the case management system. Keep a monthly record of
appeal statistics. Execute administrative support to the specific functions:
Apply efficient management and protection of sensitive and confidential
information coming in and going out the sub-directorate in compliance with the
applicable prescripts. Represent the employer at conciliation/arbitration
meetings and act as Presiding Officer in disciplinary hearings. Assist with
advice to management on all aspects of labour relations. Act as departmental
representative in formal disciplinary hearings (educators and public servants).
Contribute to the operational objectives of the directorate. Promote sound
labour relations in the public education sector. Keep up to date with matters
relating to grievances, disputes and misconduct cases. Assist with
procurement, inventory and general finance processes. Draft submissions and
memoranda on various challenges. Redistribute correspondence and redirect
enquiries to the relevant officials. Keep record and follow up on enquiries and
correspondence. Direct general inquiries from the public, media and
administration. Check and verify outgoing documentation. Assist with diary
257
management by coordinating meetings and appointments. Prepare all relevant
documentations for appointments and meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Esau Tel No: (021) 467 2362
POST 16/357 : HR PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION: SYSTEMS AND
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 276
Directorate: Recruitment and Selection
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a relevant 3 year qualification. 3
years' relevant experience in talent sourcing and administration. Knowledge:
National and Provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management with specific reference to the Public Service
Amendment Act, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act. Skills:
Analytical thinking. Strategic thinking. Communication. Computer Literacy.
Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement policy. Conflict resolution.
Monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Presentation. Problem Solving.
Research.
DUTIES : Compile advertisements and placement thereof in applicable media:
Write/create an advert in line with job description and job evaluation. Create
Provincial and DPSA bulletin. Compile newspaper adverts. Request for
publication in various media (internally via Directorate: Corporate
Communication). Attend to all queries relating to adverts and advise in this
regard. Facilitate and advise on the recruitment process (inclusive of e-
recruitment procedures): Receive applications per post from the service
provider. Control the applications against final lists to ensure 100%
reconciliation. Transmit applications with supporting HR documentation to
selection committees. Liaise with OD regarding competency assessment
process (level 9 and higher). Co-ordinate a data base of all relevant recruitment
information. Facilitate and advise on the selection process, inclusive of
interviews and personnel suitability checks in respect of all nominated
candidates. Compile integrated and individual short-list grids. Prepare the
interview file with all relevant documentation. Inform relevant managers of their
responsibility to assist and support the shortlisting process. Render logistical
arrangements i.e. accommodation/flights, preparing agenda’s and informing
the candidates of the interview details. Attend preparatory meetings with line
manager/chair/panel. Render secretariat function during actual interviews.
Monitor procedures and processes during actual interview and advise
accordingly. Draft submission and appointment letters in respect of nominated
candidates: Compile post-interview submissions for approval by relevant
manager. Submit the approved submission to the relevant line manager.
Submit relevant documentation to the appointment section. Co-ordinate the
data base with relevant information regarding submission letters, appointment
letters, nomination and assumption of duty letters. Provide a capacity building
and talent sourcing advisory service: Conduct capacity building information
sessions at department components. Maintain and update talent sourcing
procedures and manuals. Render general recruitment advisory service.
Perform managerial / supervisory tasks: Participate in the recruitment and
selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide staff. Manage the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor information capacity building.
Promote sound labour relations. Maintain discipline. Give strategic direction to
and manage policy issues with regard to the functions of the components under
his/her command. Allocate duties to personnel, monitoring outcomes and
instituting the necessary corrective measures to address deviations from
standards. Determine workflow requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mocke Tel No: (021) 467 9278
POST 16/358 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF
NO: 203
District Office: Metro East Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a One-year post matric
qualification. 3 years relevant clerical or administrative experience. Knowledge
of provincial and national education strategies, advanced knowledge of
258
relevant software packages and computer programmes, knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures and basic financial
administration. Skills: Drafting documentation such as submissions and letters,
sound organising, planning and time management skills, minute taking and
record keeping, running and maintaining record management systems,
effective written and verbal communication, procurement of goods and
services, ability to work under pressure, sound judgement, basic research and
information gathering skills, analysis of documents and situations, ability to
access research sources and ability to function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services by managing support staff in
administrative duties, developing and maintaining processes and systems to
improve efficiency, overseeing the flow of information and documents to and
from the Curriculum Support Component, preparing documentation and
verifying responses received from schools and internal and external
stakeholders, obtaining inputs, collating and compiling progress, monthly and
management reports, assisting with monitoring and evaluating performance
against predetermined objectives, ensuring effective record keeping of
activities and resources, assisting with the planning of workshops, meetings
and conferences, following up on outstanding documentation, data and
information and collating curriculum data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, EduInfoSearch, SAMI and DMIS. Coordinate monitoring and
evaluation activities by updating and maintaining information systems for
curriculum projects, compiling memoranda and reports on the validity and
relevance of data, tracking issues through the Issue Management System,
coordinating project development queries including parliamentary and
ministerial enquiries, analysing reports and making notes or recommendations,
assisting with analysis of business reports, drafting progress reports and
keeping detailed records of teacher and school performance. Provide support
to the unit for supply chain management by coordinating supporting
documents, managing and maintaining an effective filing system, screening
documents for meetings, collecting and compiling project information,
rendering secretariat services including agenda management and circulation
of memoranda, managing procurement of standard items, obtaining required
signatures and keeping records of procurement activities. Render advice and
liaise on administrative matters by remaining updated on WCED online
systems, studying relevant public service and departmental prescripts and
policies, remaining abreast of project procedures and compiling reports and
submissions as requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Daniels Tel No: (021) 900 7169
POST 16/359 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATION:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 207
District Office: Eden and Central Karoo Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : George
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant clerical/administration experience. A valid
driver's license (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge of Provincial and National
education strategies, advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &
sound application of relevant computer programmes, NSC/SC/AET
examinations directives, various exam databases/platforms, relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures (assessment and examination
policies), basic financial administration. Skills: Drafting of documents
(submissions, letters). Sound organising, planning and time management skills
(workshops, conferences events), Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office, property record minutes and decisions at meetings,
run and maintain a record management system, communicate effectively
(written and verbally), procure goods and services, work under pressure,
interpretation and application of various exam directives, client service
orientated skills, sound judgement, basic research (information gathering),
analyse documents and situations, ability to access research sources
(information platforms), function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render Assessment and examination administration services to clients within
the Education District: Execute all assessment and examination administrative
process within the prescribed timelines and frameworks. Verify and approve all
processed applications. Handle all investigations regarding registration,
259
certifications and result related enquiries and execution pot-approval.
Administer the certification process through: Processing and publishing of
results; queries and remarking: a) perform client services, b) execute queries
emanating from the client service, c) deal with all exam related result queries
in an effective and efficient manner, d) issue all results in accordance with
policy and prescripts, e) deal with all telephonic queries, f) record, reprint and
post remark and missing mar results. Certification: a) deal effectively and
efficiently with all certification queries, b) attend workshops and training
sessions relating to certifications, c) guide co-workers / clients on directives, d)
issue circulars and notifications to schools concerning certification, e) provide
and capture results for WCED, f) processing of remark requests, g) create a
database of all certificates, h) receive and distribute certificates. Administer the
registration process, including: processing of re-write requests, processing of
applications for Amended Senior Certificate (ASC); processing of applications
for National Senior Certificate (NSC) repearters / improved qualifications; verify
on-line applications; make personal and subject corrections on the Exams
mainframe; collection and filing of SBA mark sheets; send and receive
schedules and preliminary schedules from schools; receive and process
invigilator applications. Provide support with the following administrative
processes: assessment and promotion appeals; collation of School Based
Assessment (SBA), Practical Assessment Task (PAT), Oral Mark Sheets;
identification registration and auditing of examination and re-write centers; the
District Assessment Irregularities Committee (DAIC) assessment
accommodation for immigrant learners. Develop and maintain processes and
systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency of the Assessment
and Examinations unit. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on
the flow of information and documents, to and from the assessment and
examination coordinator. Prepare documentation and verify response
information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
assessment and examination unit and advise/sensitise the assessment and
examination coordinator e.g.: (i) progress reports; (ii) monthly reports and (iii)
management reports. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Assist
with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences and events as
and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
Assessment and Examination data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate assessment and
examination administrative activities and maintain the relevant administration
systems: Update and maintain the information systems for Assessment and
Examination projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on
validity and relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues
referred to and from the Assessment and Examination Coordinator through
Issue Management System (IMS). Coordinate queries related to
parliamentary/ministerial enquiries referred to the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator. Assist the Assessment and Examination Coordinator
in the analysis of business reports. Assist the Assessment and Examination
Coordinator with the drafting of progress reports. Assist with school audits for
state of readiness. Provide support to the Assessment and Examinations Unit:
Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the Assessment and
Examination coordinator. Manage and maintain an effective filing system.
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
meetings. Collet and compile information regarding challenges that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement
advices and attendance records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C.Buitendach Tel No: (021) 803 8389
POST 16/360 : SCHOOL LIBRARY SERVICE OFFICER: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF
NO: 212
District Office: Metro North Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Parow
260
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Bachelor or National Diploma
in Library and Information Science. A valid Driver's licence. 1 year relevant
experience in libraries. Knowledge of library and information science matters,
national and provincial library policies and legislation, procedures and
processes, national and provincial education policies and legislation and
National Curriculum Statements. Skills: Organising skills, problem-solving
skills, customer care, good interpersonal relations, computer literacy including
MS Word, Excel and SLIMS, financial administration skills, ability to work under
pressure, language skills in two official languages, communication skills,
analytical thinking and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Implement national and provincial library policies by assisting Head Office
EDULIS with the development of policies, developing the district
implementation plan for the roll-out of the School Library Policy, conducting
information sessions with principals, teachers and district officials, training
School Library Coordinators, monitoring implementation of the School Library
Policy at school level and reporting on implementation. Manage training and
development of School Library Coordinators by conducting training needs
analyses, identifying coordinators for training within the district or at the CTLI,
planning and preparing training material and support resources, presenting
and facilitating targeted library courses, liaising with and developing
partnerships with library-based organisations, following up on implementation
of training, supporting, monitoring, evaluating and reporting on training
interventions, preparing summary reports based on programme evaluations
and supporting nominations for professional development and awards.
Implement DBE and WCED requirements for special library projects by
assisting EDULIS with project planning, managing implementation at district
level, liaising with partner organisations, evaluating project roll-out and
reporting on implementation. Provide guidance and support to Public Ordinary
and Special Ordinary Schools by conducting site visits, advising on appropriate
school library models, assisting principals and SGBs with development, design
and policy alignment of library models, supporting infrastructure planning,
advising on management, administration, staffing, collection development,
programmes, advocacy, monitoring and evaluation and compiling regular
reports on library services. Promote and support reading and literacy
programmes by assisting curriculum and learner support initiatives, facilitating
provisioning of library materials, implementing and promoting national and
international literacy celebrations, managing partnerships and dissemination of
donated library materials and reporting on library services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Makena Tel No: (021) 938 3104
POST 16/361 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATION:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 218
District Office: West Coast Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant clerical/administration experience. A valid
driver's license (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge of Provincial and National
education strategies, advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &
sound application of relevant computer programmes, NSC/SC/AET
examinations directives, various exam databases/platforms, relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures (assessment and examination
policies), basic financial administration. Skills: Drafting documents
(submissions, letters). Sound organising, planning and time management skills
(workshops, conferences events), Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office, property record minutes and decisions at meetings,
run and maintain a record management system, communicate effectively
(written and verbally), procure goods and services, work under pressure,
interpretation and application of various exam directives, client service
orientated skills, sound judgement, basic research (information gathering),
analyse documents and situations, ability to access research sources
(information platforms), function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render Assessment and examination administration services to clients within
the Education District: Execute all assessment and examination administrative
process within the prescribed timelines and frameworks. Verify and approve all
processed applications. Handle all investigations regarding registration,
261
certifications and result related enquiries and execution pot-approval.
Administer the certification process through: Processing and publishing of
results; queries and remarking: a) perform client services, b) execute queries
emanating from the client service, c) deal with all exam related result queries
in an effective and efficient manner, d) issue all results in accordance with
policy and prescripts, e) deal with all telephonic queries, f) record, reprint and
post remark and missing mar results. Certification: a) deal effectively and
efficiently with all certification queries, b) attend workshops and training
sessions relating to certifications, c) guide co-workers / clients on directives, d)
issue circulars and notifications to schools concerning certification, e) provide
and capture results for WCED, f) processing of remark requests, g) create a
database of all certificates, h) receive and distribute certificates. Administer the
registration process, including: processing of re-write requests, processing of
applications for Amended Senior Certificate (ASC); processing of applications
for National Senior Certificate (NSC) repearters / improved qualifications; verify
on-line applications; make personal and subject corrections on the Exams
mainframe; collection and filing of SBA mark sheets; send and receive
schedules and preliminary schedules from schools; receive and process
invigilator applications. Provide support with the following administrative
processes: assessment and promotion appeals; collation of School Based
Assessment (SBA), Practical Assessment Task (PAT), Oral Mark Sheets;
identification registration and auditing of examination and re-write centers; the
District Assessment Irregularities Committee (DAIC) assessment
accommodation for immigrant learners. Develop and maintain processes and
systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency of the Assessment
and Examinations unit. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on
the flow of information and documents, to and from the assessment and
examination coordinator. Prepare documentation and verify response
information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
assessment and examination unit and advise/sensitise the assessment and
examination coordinator e.g.: (i) progress reports; (ii) monthly reports and (iii)
management reports. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Assist
with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences and events as
and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
Assessment and Examination data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate assessment and
examination administrative activities and maintain the relevant administration
systems: Update and maintain the information systems for Assessment and
Examination projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on
validity and relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues
referred to and from the Assessment and Examination Coordinator through
Issue Management System (IMS). Coordinate queries related to
parliamentary/ministerial enquiries referred to the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator. Assist the Assessment and Examination Coordinator
in the analysis of business reports. Assist the Assessment and Examination
Coordinator with the drafting of progress reports. Assist with school audits for
state of readiness. Provide support to the Assessment and Examinations Unit:
Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the Assessment and
Examination coordinator. Manage and maintain an effective filing system.
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
meetings. Collet and compile information regarding challenges that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement
advices and attendance records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Gqotso Tel No: (021) 860 1568
POST 16/362 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATION:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 219
District Office: West Coast Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Paarl
262
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant clerical/administration experience. A valid
driver's license (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge of Provincial and National
education strategies, advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &
sound application of relevant computer programmes, NSC/SC/AET
examinations directives, various exam databases/platforms, relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures (assessment and examination
policies), basic financial administration. Skills: Drafting documents
(submissions, letters). Sound organising, planning and time management skills
(workshops, conferences events), Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office, property record minutes and decisions at meetings,
run and maintain a record management system, communicate effectively
(written and verbally), procure goods and services, work under pressure,
interpretation and application of various exam directives, client service
orientated skills, sound judgement, basic research (information gathering),
analyse documents and situations, ability to access research sources
(information platforms), function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render Assessment and examination administration services to clients within
the Education District: Execute all assessment and examination administrative
process within the prescribed timelines and frameworks. Verify and approve all
processed applications. Handle all investigations regarding registration,
certifications and result related enquiries and execution pot-approval.
Administer the certification process through: Processing and publishing of
results; queries and remarking: a) perform client services, b) execute queries
emanating from the client service, c) deal with all exam related result queries
in an effective and efficient manner, d) issue all results in accordance with
policy and prescripts, e) deal with all telephonic queries, f) record, reprint and
post remark and missing mar results. Certification: a) deal effectively and
efficiently with all certification queries, b) attend workshops and training
sessions relating to certifications, c) guide co-workers / clients on directives, d)
issue circulars and notifications to schools concerning certification, e) provide
and capture results for WCED, f) processing of remark requests, g) create a
database of all certificates, h) receive and distribute certificates. Administer the
registration process, including: processing of re-write requests, processing of
applications for Amended Senior Certificate (ASC); processing of applications
for National Senior Certificate (NSC) repearters / improved qualifications; verify
on-line applications; make personal and subject corrections on the Exams
mainframe; collection and filing of SBA mark sheets; send and receive
schedules and preliminary schedules from schools; receive and process
invigilator applications. Provide support with the following administrative
processes: assessment and promotion appeals; collation of School Based
Assessment (SBA), Practical Assessment Task (PAT), Oral Mark Sheets;
identification registration and auditing of examination and re-write centers; the
District Assessment Irregularities Committee (DAIC) assessment
accommodation for immigrant learners. Develop and maintain processes and
systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency of the Assessment
and Examinations unit. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on
the flow of information and documents, to and from the assessment and
examination coordinator. Prepare documentation and verify response
information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
assessment and examination unit and advise/sensitise the assessment and
examination coordinator e.g.: (i) progress reports; (ii) monthly reports and (iii)
management reports. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Assist
with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences and events as
and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
Assessment and Examination data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate assessment and
examination administrative activities and maintain the relevant administration
systems: Update and maintain the information systems for Assessment and
Examination projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on
validity and relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues
referred to and from the Assessment and Examination Coordinator through
Issue Management System (IMS). Coordinate queries related to
parliamentary/ministerial enquiries referred to the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator. Assist the Assessment and Examination Coordinator
263
in the analysis of business reports. Assist the Assessment and Examination
Coordinator with the drafting of progress reports. Assist with school audits for
state of readiness. Provide support to the Assessment and Examinations Unit:
Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the Assessment and
Examination coordinator. Manage and maintain an effective filing system.
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
meetings. Collet and compile information regarding challenges that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement
advices and attendance records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Gqotso Tel No: (021) 860 1568
POST 16/363 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 180
District Circuits: Metro East Education District Office: Circuit Team 5
SALARY : R338 106 (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 3 years relevant clerical or
administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national
education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages and
sound application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration.
Skills: Ability to draft documentation including submissions and letters. Sound
organising, planning and time management skills including diary management,
travel itineraries and document flow. Ability to record minutes and decisions at
meetings. Ability to run and maintain a record management system.
Communicate effectively both written and verbally. Procure goods and
services. Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Conduct basic
research and information gathering. Analyse documents and situations. Ability
to access research sources and information platforms. Function as a team
member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services. Assist management support staff
in all administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that
will contribute towards improving efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and
provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and
documents, to and from the circuit. Prepare documentation and verify
responses information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the circuit
and advise/ sensitise the office, e.g.: (i) Progress reports, (ii) Monthly reports,
and (iii) Management reports. Assist with monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the circuit office on an ongoing basis against predetermined
objectives. Ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources
of the circuit. Assist with the planning and execution of workshops, large
meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from schools. Collate circuit data available
on WCED systems such as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc.Co-
ordinate M&E activities and maintain the relevant systems. Update and
maintain the M&E systems for circuit projects (e.g. APP Projects). Provide
support to conduct basic research on education providers and their activities
at schools in the circuit. Compile memoranda and reports on validity and
relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues referred to
and from the circuit office through Issue Management System (IMS).
Coordinate projects development queries-related parliamentary/ ministerial
enquiries referred to the circuit. Analyse reports and make notes and/or
recommendations with regard to projects implemented by the circuit. Assist the
circuit manager in the analysis of business reports. Draft progress reports on
all plans. Keep detail records of teacher and school performance. Provide
support to the circuit for supply chain management. Coordinate evidence/
supporting documents for the circuit. Manage and maintain an effective filing
system. Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents
required for meetings. Collect and compile information on project with regard
to issues that needs to be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services,
arrange for the placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings
chaired by the Circuit Manager, and ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Manage the procurement of standard items, like stationary,
264
refreshments etc. for the circuit office. In terms of the project-related activities,
obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement advices and
attendance records. Keep record of all procurement activities. Render advice
and liaise w.r.t administrative matters. Keep updated on WCED school online
systems including, but not limited to, LTSM online system, SAMI, CEMIS and
Eduinfosearch. Studies the relevant public services and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly. Remain abreast with project procedures and processes
that apply to the district office. Advise relevant stakeholders on departmental
prescripts and policies regarding own KRAs. Compile reports and submissions
on request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.Magadla Tel No: (021) 900 7093
POST 16/364 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 182
District Circuits: Eden and Central Karoo Education District Office: Circuit Team
6
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 3 years relevant clerical or
administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national
education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages and
sound application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration.
Skills: Ability to draft documentation including submissions and letters. Sound
organising, planning and time management skills including diary management,
travel itineraries and document flow. Ability to record minutes and decisions at
meetings. Ability to run and maintain a record management system.
Communicate effectively both written and verbally. Procure goods and
services. Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Conduct basic
research and information gathering. Analyse documents and situations. Ability
to access research sources and information platforms. Function as a team
member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services. Assist management support staff
in all administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that
will contribute towards improving efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and
provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and
documents, to and from the circuit. Prepare documentation and verify
responses information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the circuit
and advise/ sensitise the office, e.g.: (i) Progress reports, (ii) Monthly reports,
and (iii) Management reports. Assist with monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the circuit office on an ongoing basis against predetermined
objectives. Ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources
of the circuit. Assist with the planning and execution of workshops, large
meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from schools. Collate circuit data available
on WCED systems such as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc.Co-
ordinate M&E activities and maintain the relevant systems. Update and
maintain the M&E systems for circuit projects (e.g. APP Projects). Provide
support to conduct basic research on education providers and their activities
at schools in the circuit. Compile memoranda and reports on validity and
relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues referred to
and from the circuit office through Issue Management System (IMS).
Coordinate projects development queries-related parliamentary/ ministerial
enquiries referred to the circuit. Analyse reports and make notes and/or
recommendations with regard to projects implemented by the circuit. Assist the
circuit manager in the analysis of business reports. Draft progress reports on
all plans. Keep detail records of teacher and school performance. Provide
support to the circuit for supply chain management. Coordinate evidence/
supporting documents for the circuit. Manage and maintain an effective filing
system. Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents
required for meetings. Collect and compile information on project with regard
to issues that needs to be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services,
arrange for the placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings
chaired by the Circuit Manager, and ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Manage the procurement of standard items, like stationary,
265
refreshments etc. for the circuit office. In terms of the project-related activities,
obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement advices and
attendance records. Keep record of all procurement activities. Render advice
and liaise w.r.t administrative matters. Keep updated on WCED school online
systems including, but not limited to, LTSM online system, SAMI, CEMIS and
Eduinfosearch. Studies the relevant public services and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly. Remain abreast with project procedures and processes
that apply to the district office. Advise relevant stakeholders on departmental
prescripts and policies regarding own KRAs. Compile reports and submissions
on request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Daniels Tel No: (044) 4729 1681
POST 16/365 : TRANSPORT CONTROL OFFICER: GG TRANSPORT: LOGISTICAL
SUPPORT REF NO: 187
District Office: Metro East Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a valid Driver’s licence. 6-10
years clerical experience. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and
Regulations, PFMA and Treasury Regulations, Department of Transport
policies relating to GG Transport, and WCED Acts, policies, circulars,
processes and procedures. Skills: Financial skills, interpretation of prescripts,
organising and planning, report writing, motivation, interpersonal skills and
communication in two official languages.
DUTIES : Monitor, maintain and control the GG fleet at district level by applying and
registering new GG users with GMT and providing all relevant documentation,
monitoring the motor driver’s licences register of all personnel, monitoring all
trip authorities and garaging, ensuring drivers have knowledge of prescribed
transport circulars, ensuring all trips are recorded in logbooks, verifying toll card
systems with trip authorities and registers, ensuring all logbooks are signed off
monthly and submitted to Head Office and GMT, verifying expenditure with
GMT invoices, compiling and submitting monthly utilisation reports, managing
fleet daily, monitoring registers for control purposes, allocating pool vehicles for
optimal use, monitoring daily inspections of vehicles after trips, reconciling GG
invoices with utilisation reports, liaising with GMT for replacement vehicles,
checking damage claims submitted by GMT and submitting to Head Office,
ensuring vehicles are roadworthy, serviced, licensed and securely parked,
organising services, tyres, batteries and cleaning, coordinating fines, analysing
databases for disciplinary follow-up, coordinating accident reporting including
SAPD reporting, finalising accident reports, organising breakdown services,
obtaining quotations for minor vehicle damages, obtaining reports for GMT and
coordinating the submission of log sheets, accident reports, fines and holiday
garaging for Public Special School vehicles. Order taxi transport as requested
by GMT including collecting, verifying and filing taxi trip authorities and verifying
GMT invoices before payment. Administer, verify and monitor the use of rentals
including receiving applications for rental cars, collecting and inspecting rental
vehicles, entering vehicles into the rental register, opening logbooks and
following GG-vehicle procedures up to payment. Supervise employees by
allocating duties, performing quality control, advising and leading staff,
assessing performance, developing employees, implementing work systems,
maintaining discipline and participating in recruitment when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Solomon Tel No: (021) 900 7190
POST 16/366 : CHIEF HR CLERK: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 230
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 6 years relevant experience.
Knowledge of Service benefits processes. Knowledge of Service benefits
systems. Knowledge of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator
and public servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995. Employment
of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South African Schools
Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act 75 of 1997. Knowledge of
other related legislation. PERSAL. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Computer
266
Literacy. Language skills. Organisational skills. Good written and oral
communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Analytical skills.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Demonstrate the ability to use Microsoft
Office 365, Microsoft Outlook and PERSAL.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of policies related to the divisions specific field of work. Execute and comply to
new and amended departmental policies and procedures. Check and verify
that amendments to new policies, as recommended, are implemented. Provide
input on the review/amendment on policies. Liaise with other Divisions within
HR. Provide assistance with the interpretation and application of policies and
prescripts. Responsible for the implementation and compliance to new and
amended departmental policies. Supervise and undertake the more complex
implementation and maintenance of the administration of the appointment of
personnel. Verify all qualifications before the appointment is effected and
regular updating of new personal information on the Personnel and Salary
system (PERSAL). Check and verify that the transfer of personnel from other
government departments is implemented correctly. Ensure the approval of
appointments on PERSAL. Check contracts of employment for completeness
and ensure a copy of the contract is available on personnel files. Provide
progress reports in respect of compliance. Supervise and undertake the more
complex implementation and maintenance of salary administration pertaining
to the appointment process. Check and verify that all employment
appointments received are processed timeously and correctly on PERSAL by
screening nomination forms received for contract, substitute, periodical, or
permanent Public Service staff and Educators, before approving any
transaction on PERSAL captured by HR Clerks. Check that data loaded on
PERSAL corresponds with information on file or nomination documents.
Ensure that any amendments to prescripts pertaining to salaries are brought
to the attention of management and staff. Ensure the timeous payment of
salaries to ensure that all appointments, acting allowances, 37 percent in lieu
of service benefits transactions are captured correctly and approved timeously
on PERSAL. Check the improvement of qualifications, cash bonuses,
recognition of previous experience or notch adjustments for corrections. Check
if official’s appointment date is correct and approve transactions long service
payments. Check and verify that the correct banking details are captured.
Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of leave administration. Allocate leave forms to HR Clerks for processing.
Check leave transactions captured on PERSAL by HR Clerks for accurateness
as per the leave application. Deal with all aspects of leave, but especially those
applications that have to be dealt with in terms of Policy and Procedure on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement (PILIR). Screen applications for
temporary incapacity leave to ensure the correctness thereof. Refer PILIR
cases to the Health Risk Manager within the prescribed timeframes. Compile
and submit recommendation of HRM for approval. Inform employees of the
outcome of their applications. Provide advice and guidance to employees on
the process and in the completion of application forms. Assist with PILIR
training in the Department. Monitor the processing of PILIR cases and manage
challenges. Provide input towards the monthly PILIR Report. Report on leave
patterns or tendencies that might impact on the service delivery of schools,
districts, circuits or Head Office. Deal with enquiries pertaining to all leave
entitlements. Prepare submission for special leave, leave without pay and ill-
health retirements. Audit leave records in respect of leave gratuities. Compile
a leave audit report upon exit. Arrange for payment of leave gratuity where
applicable. Amend errors identified during the audit. Check for corrections and
implementation of incapacity leave in terms of the PILIR Policy, accurate
capturing on PERSAL before submission to HRM. Supervise and undertake
the more complex implementation and maintenance of Exit Management.
Provide an exit management service to employees exiting the service. Notify
employees of the outcome of his or her application, the last day of service and
applicable benefits. Quality assure applications before dispatching to staff for
processing. Arrange for the payment of leave gratuities, Individual-Linked
Savings Facility payments, pro rata service bonus and outstanding salary.
Provide statistics to relevant bodies exiting the service. Identify employees due
for compulsory retirement and ensure that these employees are informed at
least three months in advance about the termination of their services. Check
that all necessary administrative processes are duly followed and completed
before signing off on Z102’s prepared by HR Clerks for pension application to
267
be submitted online via the Pension System to the Government Employee
Pension Fund System. Advising clients on the process and status of their
pension application. Check and verify that a clearance certificate for
outstanding debt is completed and dispatch to Finance. Check and verify that
particulars of debt, as indicated on clearance certificate are captured on
PERSAL. Handle queries with regard to exit management and benefits. Keep
databases of applications submitted to the GEPF and regularly update such.
Provide quarterly report on the status of pension applications. Supervise and
undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance with regard to
service benefits and conditions of service. Administer all service benefits, but
especially with regard to Housing Allowance, Injury on Duty, Overtime,
Resettlement costs, all other allowances and salary deductions. Check and
verify approval of stop orders in terms of bond repayments. Liaise with
employees with regards to a paid up bond. See to the termination of Housing
Allowances in cases of retirement or death. See to the finalisation of claims
with regard to Injury on Duty. Arrange for payment of medical accounts for
Injury on Duty cases. Arrange for payment of resettlement claims. Arrange for
payment of overtime claims and all other allowances. Responsible for
monitoring of real time databases to ensure tasks are completed accurately
and on time. Execute functions pertaining to probation, long service awards,
Senior Management Services and Middle Management Service salary
structures, general salary adjustments. Report on these cases and note them
in registers or systems for these purposes. Supervise human resources or
staff. Participate in the recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and
guide staff. Manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff.
Monitor information capacity building. Promote sound labour relations.
Maintain discipline. Guide on policy issues with regard to the functions of the
components under his or her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 16/367 : CHIEF HR CLERK: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO: 231
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 6 years relevant experience.
Knowledge of Service benefits processes. Knowledge of Service benefits
systems. Knowledge of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator
and public servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995. Employment
of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South African Schools
Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act 75 of 1997. Knowledge of
other related legislation. PERSAL. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy. Computer
Literacy. Language skills. Organisational skills. Good written and oral
communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Analytical skills.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Demonstrate the ability to use Microsoft
Office 365, Microsoft Outlook and PERSAL.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of policies related to the divisions specific field of work. Execute and comply to
new and amended departmental policies and procedures. Check and verify
that amendments to new policies, as recommended, are implemented. Provide
input on the review/amendment on policies. Liaise with other Divisions within
HR. Provide assistance with the interpretation and application of policies and
prescripts. Responsible for the implementation and compliance to new and
amended departmental policies. Supervise and undertake the more complex
implementation and maintenance of the administration of the appointment of
personnel. Verify all qualifications before the appointment is effected and
regular updating of new personal information on the Personnel and Salary
system (PERSAL). Check and verify that the transfer of personnel from other
government departments is implemented correctly. Ensure the approval of
appointments on PERSAL. Check contracts of employment for completeness
and ensure a copy of the contract is available on personnel files. Provide
progress reports in respect of compliance. Supervise and undertake the more
complex implementation and maintenance of salary administration pertaining
to the appointment process. Check and verify that all employment
appointments received are processed timeously and correctly on PERSAL by
screening nomination forms received for contract, substitute, periodical, or
permanent Public Service staff and Educators, before approving any
268
transaction on PERSAL captured by HR Clerks. Check that data loaded on
PERSAL corresponds with information on file or nomination documents.
Ensure that any amendments to prescripts pertaining to salaries are brought
to the attention of management and staff. Ensure the timeous payment of
salaries to ensure that all appointments, acting allowances, 37 percent in lieu
of service benefits transactions are captured correctly and approved timeously
on PERSAL. Check the improvement of qualifications, cash bonuses,
recognition of previous experience or notch adjustments for corrections. Check
if official’s appointment date is correct and approve transactions long service
payments. Check and verify that the correct banking details are captured.
Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of leave administration. Allocate leave forms to HR Clerks for processing.
Check leave transactions captured on PERSAL by HR Clerks for accurateness
as per the leave application. Deal with all aspects of leave, but especially those
applications that have to be dealt with in terms of Policy and Procedure on
Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement (PILIR). Screen applications for
temporary incapacity leave to ensure the correctness thereof. Refer PILIR
cases to the Health Risk Manager within the prescribed timeframes. Compile
and submit recommendation of HRM for approval. Inform employees of the
outcome of their applications. Provide advice and guidance to employees on
the process and in the completion of application forms. Assist with PILIR
training in the Department. Monitor the processing of PILIR cases and manage
challenges. Provide input towards the monthly PILIR Report. Report on leave
patterns or tendencies that might impact on the service delivery of schools,
districts, circuits or Head Office. Deal with enquiries pertaining to all leave
entitlements. Prepare submission for special leave, leave without pay and ill-
health retirements. Audit leave records in respect of leave gratuities. Compile
a leave audit report upon exit. Arrange for payment of leave gratuity where
applicable. Amend errors identified during the audit. Check for corrections and
implementation of incapacity leave in terms of the PILIR Policy, accurate
capturing on PERSAL before submission to HRM. Supervise and undertake
the more complex implementation and maintenance of Exit Management.
Provide an exit management service to employees exiting the service. Notify
employees of the outcome of his or her application, the last day of service and
applicable benefits. Quality assure applications before dispatching to staff for
processing. Arrange for the payment of leave gratuities, Individual-Linked
Savings Facility payments, pro rata service bonus and outstanding salary.
Provide statistics to relevant bodies exiting the service. Identify employees due
for compulsory retirement and ensure that these employees are informed at
least three months in advance about the termination of their services. Check
that all necessary administrative processes are duly followed and completed
before signing off on Z102’s prepared by HR Clerks for pension application to
be submitted online via the Pension System to the Government Employee
Pension Fund System. Advising clients on the process and status of their
pension application. Check and verify that a clearance certificate for
outstanding debt is completed and dispatch to Finance. Check and verify that
particulars of debt, as indicated on clearance certificate are captured on
PERSAL. Handle queries with regard to exit management and benefits. Keep
databases of applications submitted to the GEPF and regularly update such.
Provide quarterly report on the status of pension applications. Supervise and
undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance with regard to
service benefits and conditions of service. Administer all service benefits, but
especially with regard to Housing Allowance, Injury on Duty, Overtime,
Resettlement costs, all other allowances and salary deductions. Check and
verify approval of stop orders in terms of bond repayments. Liaise with
employees with regards to a paid up bond. See to the termination of Housing
Allowances in cases of retirement or death. See to the finalisation of claims
with regard to Injury on Duty. Arrange for payment of medical accounts for
Injury on Duty cases. Arrange for payment of resettlement claims. Arrange for
payment of overtime claims and all other allowances. Responsible for
monitoring of real time databases to ensure tasks are completed accurately
and on time. Execute functions pertaining to probation, long service awards,
Senior Management Services and Middle Management Service salary
structures, general salary adjustments. Report on these cases and note them
in registers or systems for these purposes. Supervise human resources or
staff. Participate in the recruitment and selection of staff. Motivate, train and
guide staff. Manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff.
269
Monitor information capacity building. Promote sound labour relations.
Maintain discipline. Guide on policy issues with regard to the functions of the
components under his or her command.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 16/368 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: DISTRICT DIRECTOR REF NO: 235
District Office: Overberg Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Secretarial Diploma or
equivalent qualification (1 year post matric qualification). 3 years experience in
rendering a support service to senior management. Knowledge on the relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge of financial
administration. Skills: Language skills and the ability to communicate well with
people at different levels and backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy. Sound organisational skills. Good people skills. High level
of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations. Good grooming
and presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls requiring discretion in directing calls. Performs advanced typing
work. Operates and ensures office equipment is in good working order.
Records engagements of the senior manager. Uses discretion to manage
meeting requests based on importance and urgency. Coordinates with and
advises the manager on engagements. Compiles realistic schedules of
appointments. Renders administrative support services. Ensures effective flow
and safekeeping of information. Obtains, inputs, collates and compiles reports
including progress, monthly and management reports. Scrutinizes routine
submissions and makes notes or recommendations. Responds to enquiries
from stakeholders. Drafts documents and files records. Coordinates travel
arrangements. Prioritizes issues in the manager’s office. Manages leave
register and telephone accounts. Handles procurement of standard items.
Provides support regarding meetings. Determines required actions and
documents for meetings. Compiles documents to inform the manager. Records
minutes and decisions and follows up on progress. Prepares brief notes.
Coordinates logistical arrangements. Supports administration of the manager’s
budget. Coordinates documents related to the budget. Assists with funding
requirements for MTEF submissions. Keeps records of expenditure
commitments and monitors expenditure. Checks BAS reports for correct
allocation. Identifies need for fund shifts and drafts memos. Compares MTEF
allocation with requested budget and informs the manager. Studies relevant
Public Service and departmental prescripts and ensures proper understanding.
Remains up to date with policies and procedures applicable to the work terrain
and the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7301
POST 16/369 : CARE AND SUPPORT OFFICER (HIV/AIDS AND TB AND LIFE SKILLS
EDUCATION PROGRAMME): LEARNER SUPPORT REF NO: 237
District Office: Metro East Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kuilsrivier
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a three-year relevant
qualification in Education, Health or Social Sciences. 1 year relevant
administrative experience and a valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge and
Understanding of national HIV/AIDS and TB policy, knowledge of Life Skills
and Life Orientation, understanding of financial and supply chain management
processes including the PFMA and knowledge of departmental education
policies, procedures and practices. Skills: Computer literacy including Excel
and MS Word, financial administration and budgeting skills, report writing skills,
sound organisation and planning skills, facilitation skills, communication skills,
basic knowledge and information management skills and language proficiency
in two official languages of the Western Cape Government.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate advocacy and social mobilisation programmes within
the district according to the Conditional Grant Framework and DORA for
HIV/AIDS, TB and Life Skills Education by implementing advocacy
270
interventions related to prevention of learner pregnancies, substance abuse,
HIV/AIDS and TB, reporting on these interventions, assisting public schools
with planning and implementation of social mobilisation interventions such as
World AIDS Day commemorations, liaising with Head Office regarding funding
of interventions, monitoring spending of allocated funds per intervention,
ensuring that all claims are submitted timeously and reporting monthly,
quarterly and annually to the Head of Learner Support and Head Office.
Facilitate and coordinate training and development regarding HIV/AIDS and
TB programmes by being responsible for training and development of teachers
and learners within the education district, ensuring interventions are rolled out
according to the nationally approved business plan, arranging training
interventions including venues, catering, time frames, attendance registers and
submission of claims, ensuring district training plans incorporate HIV/AIDS and
TB programmes and reporting back to the Head of Learner Support and Head
Office on training interventions. Assist with coordination and facilitation of co-
curricular activities within the district by implementing national and provincial
co-curricular activities such as Peer Education and Soul Buddyz programmes
and monitoring and reporting on co-curricular activities and related financial
processes. Be responsible for implementation of care and support within the
district according to the Conditional Grant Framework and DORA by assisting
with recruitment and selection of Care and Support Assistants at identified
public schools, collating and submitting documentation to Head Office for
appointments, monitoring and reporting on the functioning of Care and Support
Assistants within public schools, monitoring functioning of the Orphans and
Vulnerable Children programme, reporting on OVC programmes and
overseeing implementation of the Care and Support for Teaching and Learning
Strategy. Coordinate and facilitate provisioning of Learning and Teaching
Support Material by assisting with provisioning of LTSM to public schools,
monitoring provisioning and reporting to Head Office on whether all schools
received LTSM. Support and monitor the HIV/AIDS, TB and Life Skills
Education Programme within public schools by ensuring implementation in line
with national and provincial prescripts and monitoring and reporting quarterly
and monthly to Head Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Rustin Tel No: (021) 900 7187
POST 16/370 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 254
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 1 year clerical or administrative
experience. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and
procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people management
processes. Labour relations. Financial management. Project planning. Skills:
Interpret and apply relevant policies and procedures. People resource
planning. Problem solving. Sound budgeting. Facilitation. Presentation.
Communication. Analytical skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Implement and administer the Workplace Skills Plan at district level. Assist with
the process to obtain and collate training needs. Provide support to the DCES
People Management in drafting the Workplace Skills Plan in conjunction with
the District Skills Development Committee. Assist with the implementation of
the Workplace Skills Plans. Ensure that administration pertaining to training
interventions is up to date, accurate and thorough. Assist the DCES People
Management with the compilation of training reports ensuring alignment with
SETA requirements. Administer the training and professional development plan
at district level. Administer the process regarding the identification and
nomination of candidates and participants for in service training courses.
Administer the identification and nomination of teachers for the Teacher
Qualification Improvement Programmes. Administer the roll out of the District
Professional Development Plan and monitor against the approved budget.
Administer the implementation of SACE CPTD MS. Assist in the administration
and monitoring of professional participation at school level in line with
Professional Growth Plans School Improvement Plans and WCED
Professional Development Priorities. Administer and ensure that all data
pertaining to professional development points of teachers are captured
accurately and are relevant per district intervention. Compile submissions of
district interventions for CPTD MS from district components for SACE
271
endorsement. Provide administrative support to teachers or refer them to
relevant support systems regarding participation in the CPTD Management
System and professional development uptake. Administer and monitor the
National Teaching Awards process at district level. Compile monthly quarterly
and annual reports for WCED and CTLI relating to training interventions. Assist
with the monitoring and administration of the Staff Performance Management
Systems at district and school level. Assist in the administration and
dissemination of performance management training information. Schedule and
plan performance management events and activities aligning plans and
timetables with Head Office structures and assist in compiling progress reports.
Assist with administrative and operational support for alignment of individual
and district performance plans. Assist with communication dissemination and
gathering of information on performance management implementation trends
and report to supervisor. Administer and file personal development plans skills
development programmes and performance related management processes
and assist in identifying gaps and overlaps. Develop implement and comply
with new and amended departmental policies and procedures at district and
school level. File all documents relating to the SPMS including IPDP quarterly
review forms appraisal certificates and circulars. Render support and advice to
district management regarding the Employee Assistance Programme.
Facilitate mediation of policies procedures and guidelines and provide support
to staff on interpretation of the EAP policy through workshops and information
sessions. Assist with provision of information on appropriate health welfare and
psychosocial facilities support and counselling services. Draft letters and
progress or status reports as required in terms of prescripts and policies.
Perform supervisory functions attached to the post. Provide general
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and conduct quality control of work
delivered. Advise and lead employees in all aspects of work. Assess staff
performance. Develop employees to deliver work at required standards
efficiently and effectively. Develop implement and monitor work systems and
processes. Manage and promote maintenance of discipline. Participate in
recruitment and selection where required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348 4660
POST 16/371 : HR OFFICER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION: SYSTEMS AND
ADMINISTRATION: ESTABLISHMENTS REF NO: 275
Directorate: Recruitment and Selection
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a relevant, post-school Diploma.
3 years’ relevant experience. Driver’s license (excluding A/A1). Knowledge:
Thorough knowledge of establishment functions on PERSAL. Good command
of MS Office. Skills: Diplomacy, Networking, Communication, Negotiation,
Problem-solving, Computer literacy, Language proficiency (at least 2 of the 3
official Western Cape languages).
DUTIES : List and monitor all applications for contract, substitute and acting and
permanent appointments. Write submissions for the approval of contract,
substitute and acting posts. Create, amend and abolish posts on PERSAL, in
line with the approved establishment. Reserve posts for appointments. Write
submissions and letters regarding official requests for transfers. Reserve posts
for advertising. Continuous training for PERSAL staff within the department.
Administer the annual establishment adjustments. Administer excess staff
profiles on PERSAL. Provision of statistical data and PERSAL information to
various managers and role-players. Receive and process Exception Reports
on establishment issues. Administer establishment administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mocke Tel No: (021) 467 9278
POST 16/372 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: MANAGEMENT AND
GOVERNANCE REF NO: 244
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 1 year post matric qualification.
3-5 years relevant clerical/administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge
of provincial and national education strategies. Advanced knowledge of
272
relevant software packages and sound application of relevant computer
programmes. Knowledge on the relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and
procedures. Basic financial administration. Skills: Draft documentation like
submissions, letters, etc. Sound organising, planning and time management
skills, for example workshops, conferences, events. Diary management, travel
itineraries, document flow in the office. Properly record minutes and decisions
at meetings. Run and maintain a record management system. Communicate
effectively written and verbally. Procure goods and services. Work under
pressure. Make sound judgments. Do basic research (information gathering).
Analyse documents and situations. Ability to access research sources
(information platforms). Function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services. Management support staff in all
administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that will
contribute towards improving efficiency in the component. Oversee and provide
effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and documents, to and
from the Management and Governance Component. Prepare documentation
and verify responses information received from schools, and other internal and
external stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to
the Management and Governance Component and advise/sensitize the office,
e.g.: (i) Progress reports (ii) Monthly reports (iii) Management reports. Assist
with monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Management and
Governance Component on an ongoing basis against predetermined
objectives. Ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources
of the Management and Governance Component. Assist with the planning of
workshops, large meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up
with outstanding documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders.
Collate management and governance data available on WCED systems such
as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate M&E activities and
maintain the relevant systems. Update and maintain the information systems
for management and governance projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile
memoranda and reports on validity and relevance of data received from project
stakeholders. Track issues referred to and from the Management and
Governance Component through Issue Management System (IMS).
Coordinate projects development queries-related parliamentary/ministerial
enquiries referred to the Management and Governance Component. Analyse
reports and make notes and/or recommendations with regard to projects
implemented by the Management and Governance Component. Assist the
Head Management and Governance in the analysis of business reports. Draft
progress reports on all plans. Keep detail records of public schools
management and governance performance. Provide support to the Unit for
supply chain management. Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the
Management and Governance Component. Manage and maintain an effective
filing system. Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents
required for meetings. Collect and compile information on project with regard
to issues that needs to be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services.
Arrange for the placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings
chaired by the Head Management and Governance, and to ensure circulation
of accompanying memoranda. Manage the procurement of standard items like
stationary, refreshments etc. for the Management and Governance
Component. In terms of the project-related activities, obtain the necessary
signatures on documents e.g. procurement advices and attendance records.
Keep record of all procurement activities. Render advice and liaise with regard
to administrative matters. Keep updated on WCED school online systems
including, but not limited to, SAMI, CEMIS and Eduinfosearch. Studies the
relevant Public Services and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remain abreast with project procedures and processes that apply to the
Management and Governance Component. Compile reports and submissions
on request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348 4660
POST 16/373 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 178
District Circuits: Eden And Central Karoo Education District Office: Circuit Team
3
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : George
273
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operating
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the profile of all schools in the circuit. Handle routine
enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters, presentations, training material, minutes, business
plans and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Assist with
meeting arrangements. Render reception duties where applicable. Assist with
office support duties within the circuit. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation and claims
stemming from this. Keep detailed records of the CM’s school visits and
activities. Provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call
record book, telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T.Bango Tel No: (044) 803 8303
POST 16/374 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 179
District Circuits: West Coast Education District Office: Circuit Team 3
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vredenburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operating
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component. Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the Purchasing
of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain
the asset register of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Gaika Tel No: (022) 482 2737
POST 16/375 : SCM CLERK: FINANCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: 191
District Office: Metro South Education District Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Basic knowledge of supply chain
duties and practices including data capturing, computer operation and
collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of SCM work
procedures in the working environment. Skills: Computer skills. Planning and
organisation. Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support including compiling and
maintaining records such as asset records and databases, checking and
issuing furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals,
identifying redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal
274
and verifying inventories and the asset register. Render demand and
acquisition clerical support including receiving and logging requisitions on
LOGIS and adjudications, requesting and receiving quotations, capturing
specifications on the electronic purchasing system, placing orders, issuing and
receiving bid documents, providing secretariat or logistical support during bid
consideration and contract conclusion processes and compiling draft
documents as required. Render logistical support services including receiving
and verifying goods from suppliers, capturing goods in registers and
databases, receiving requests for consumables from end users, issuing
consumables to end users and maintaining consumable registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.Engel Tel No: (021) 370 2076
POST 16/376 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 195
District Office: Metro Central Education District Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Knowledge of clerical duties and
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collect
statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer skills including MS Word and Excel.
Planning and organisation. Language skills in two official languages. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services by recording, organising, storing,
capturing and retrieving correspondence and data, updating registers and
statistics, handling routine enquiries, making photocopies and receiving or
sending facsimiles, distributing documents and packages to stakeholders as
required, keeping and maintaining the filing system for the component, typing
letters or other correspondence when required and keeping and maintaining
the incoming and outgoing document register of the component. Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component by liaising with
internal and external stakeholders regarding procurement of goods and
services, obtaining quotations, completing procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items, managing stock control of office stationery
and keeping and maintaining the asset register of the component. Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component by
maintaining a leave register, keeping and maintaining personnel records,
keeping and maintaining the attendance register and arranging travelling,
accommodation and booking of venues. Provide financial administration
support services in the component by capturing and updating expenditure,
checking the correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and
submitting them to the Curriculum Support Manager for approval and handling
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Awaldien Tel No: (021) 514 6700
POST 16/377 : REGISTRY CLERK: HR REGISTRY REF NO: 232
Directorate: Service Benefits
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent. Knowledge of Organisation and
structure of WCED/Head Office, Boundaries of the Head Office/EMDC,
Guidelines and policies of WCED, Archives Act and related Treasury
Instructions and Regulations governing Registry, Knowledge of and ability to
handle cheques. Skills: Language proficiency, Communication, Interpersonal
relations/teamwork, Ability to interpret and apply policies and guidelines, Co-
ordinate work.
DUTIES : The classification of records in accordance with a system that best serve the
needs of the Department. The proper maintenance and application of an
approved filing system; The proper filing of records. Receipt and flow of
documentation internally and externally: The receipt and opening of mail; The
sorting of mail; The distribution of cheques, salary advices, FMS statements
and recording thereof; Franking of mail; Make files available on request;
Tracing / locating of files, Pending of files, Dispatching of outgoing mail. Store
and maintain records as well as the disposal of closed records: The
275
safekeeping of records, obtain authorisation to dispose or transfer records;
Control access to records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pillay Tel No: (021) 467 2477
POST 16/378 : REGISTRY CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING: SALARIES: SALARY
SUPPORT REF NO: 233
Directorate: Division: Salary Administration
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Job knowledge. Communication.
Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer. Planning and
organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
registry.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort, register
and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective
filing and record management services. Opening and close files according to
record classification system. Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrival of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and maintain Franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open and
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittance to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of amount of letters franked. Process
documents for archiving and/disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and
package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Dlamini Tel No: (021) 467 2739
POST 16/379 : REGISTRY CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING: SALARIES: SALARY
SUPPORT REF NO: 234
Directorate: Division: Salary Administration
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Job knowledge. Communication.
Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer. Planning and
organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
registry.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort, register
and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective
filing and record management services. Opening and close files according to
record classification system. Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrival of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and maintain Franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open and
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittance to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of amount of letters franked. Process
276
documents for archiving and/disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and
package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Dlamini Tel No: (021) 467 2739
POST 16/380 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 252
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 6-11 months relevant clerical
experience. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and
procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people management
processes. Skills: Interpret and apply relevant policies and procedures.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) at district level. Provide clerical support with the obtaining of training
needs. Assist with the logistical arrangements in respect of the implementation
of the Workplace Skills Plan. Provide support to the Administrative Officer in
the drafting of the Workplace Skills Plan in conjunction with the District Skills
Development Committee. Assist with logistical arrangements in respect of
arranging District Skills Development Committee meetings. Assist the
Administrative Officer with the collation and compilation of training reports. Be
responsible for the filing of all documents according to the approved file plan.
Render clerical support with the coordination and facilitation of the training and
professional development plan at district level. Assist with the administration
processes regarding the identification and nomination of candidates and
participants for in-service training courses. Assist with the administration
processes regarding the identification and nomination of teachers for the
Teacher Qualification Improvement Programmes. Assist with administration
processes with regard to the roll-out of the professional development plan and
checking it against the approved budget. Provide clerical support with the
implementation including advocacy and training of SACE CPTD-MS
(Continuing Professional Teacher Development Management System).
Provide clerical support in the administration processes regarding the
monitoring of professional participation at school level in line with Professional
Growth Plans and School Improvement Plans and WCED Professional
Development Priorities. Check that all data pertaining to the professional
development points of all teachers are captured accurately and that the
information recorded is relevant per district intervention. Assist with the
provisioning of support to teachers or refer them to the relevant support
systems regarding participation in the CPTD Management System and
professional development uptake. Provide clerical support with the
administration of the National Teaching Awards process at district level. Assist
with the administration of monthly, quarterly and annual reports for WCED and
CTLI including training interventions relating to the District Professional
Development Plan. Be responsible for the filing of all correspondence and
documentation according to the district file plan. Render clerical support with
the administration of Staff Performance Management Systems at district level.
Assist in the administration of performance management training and
information dissemination within the district and at school level. Assist with the
scheduling and planning of performance management events and activities
aligning the performance management plan and timetables with that of the
Head Office performance management structure. Assist with the
communication and dissemination of information on the performance
management framework and assist with the gathering of information regarding
performance management implementation trends within the district and report
to the supervisor. File all documents relating to the Staff Performance
Management System including Individual Performance Development Plans,
quarterly review forms, appraisal certificates and circulars in line with the
district file plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348 4660
POST 16/381 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 253
District Office: Cape Winelands Education District Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
277
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 6-11 months relevant clerical
experience. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and
procedures. Public service procedures. Knowledge of people management
processes. Skills: Interpret and apply relevant policies and procedures.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and administration of the Workplace Skills Plan
(WSP) at district level. Provide clerical support with the obtaining of training
needs. Assist with the logistical arrangements in respect of the implementation
of the Workplace Skills Plan. Provide support to the Administrative Officer in
the drafting of the Workplace Skills Plan in conjunction with the District Skills
Development Committee. Assist with logistical arrangements in respect of
arranging District Skills Development Committee meetings. Assist the
Administrative Officer with the collation and compilation of training reports. Be
responsible for the filing of all documents according to the approved file plan.
Render clerical support with the coordination and facilitation of the training and
professional development plan at district level. Assist with the administration
processes regarding the identification and nomination of candidates and
participants for in-service training courses. Assist with the administration
processes regarding the identification and nomination of teachers for the
Teacher Qualification Improvement Programmes. Assist with administration
processes with regard to the roll-out of the professional development plan and
checking it against the approved budget. Provide clerical support with the
implementation including advocacy and training of SACE CPTD-MS
(Continuing Professional Teacher Development Management System).
Provide clerical support in the administration processes regarding the
monitoring of professional participation at school level in line with Professional
Growth Plans and School Improvement Plans and WCED Professional
Development Priorities. Check that all data pertaining to the professional
development points of all teachers are captured accurately and that the
information recorded is relevant per district intervention. Assist with the
provisioning of support to teachers or refer them to the relevant support
systems regarding participation in the CPTD Management System and
professional development uptake. Provide clerical support with the
administration of the National Teaching Awards process at district level. Assist
with the administration of monthly, quarterly and annual reports for WCED and
CTLI including training interventions relating to the District Professional
Development Plan. Be responsible for the filing of all correspondence and
documentation according to the district file plan. Render clerical support with
the administration of Staff Performance Management Systems at district level.
Assist in the administration of performance management training and
information dissemination within the district and at school level. Assist with the
scheduling and planning of performance management events and activities
aligning the performance management plan and timetables with that of the
Head Office performance management structure. Assist with the
communication and dissemination of information on the performance
management framework and assist with the gathering of information regarding
performance management implementation trends within the district and report
to the supervisor. File all documents relating to the Staff Performance
Management System including Individual Performance Development Plans,
quarterly review forms, appraisal certificates and circulars in line with the
district file plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348 4660
POST 16/382 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEARNER TRANSPORT SCHEMES REF NO:
265
Directorate: Learner Transport Schemes
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent. Knowledge: Procurement systems,
financial systems, administrative processes. Skills: Communication skills.
Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Provide general administrative support to line functionaries: Provide financial
administrative services for the directorate, entailing: Registration of contractors
on the BAS system. Capture all payments on BAS. Deal with all financial
enquiries. Request reports on BAS. Maintain database of all payments to
278
Contractors, African & Schools. Assist in budget control, including weekly &
monthly monitoring.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Lackay Tel No: (021) 467 2327
POST 16/383 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF
NO: 272
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent. Knowledge of Employee Health and
Wellness related process. Knowledge of Employee Health and Wellness
related systems. Knowledge of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with
educator/public servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995.
Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South
African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA)
75 of 1997. Knowledge of other related legislation. Skills: Numeracy, Literacy,
Language skills, Computer Literacy Other Planning and organisation, Good
verbal and written communication skills, Interpersonal skills, Analytical skills,
Problem solving, Decision Making, Ability to analyse, conceptualise and
interpret policy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies, receive and send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component: Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations and complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard
office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset
register of the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support
services within the component: Maintain a leave register for the component.
Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain
the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Render clerical support with EHW meetings. Render clerical
support with EHW reports. Render clerical support with special projects of the
EHW. Assist with advocacy of the programme. Provide financial administration
support services in the component: Capture and update expenditure in
component. Obtain invoices from service providers and compile payment
packs. Confirmation of payment of invoices. Assist with monthly service level
agreement (SLA) tracking. Check budget monitoring and expenditure reports.
Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to
manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2480
POST 16/384 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND
TRAINING REF NO: 273
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent. Knowledge of people empowerment
related process. Knowledge of people empowerment related systems.
Knowledge of related prescripts. Ensure compliance with educator/public
servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act (LRA), 66 of 1995. Employment of
Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994. South African Schools Act
84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) 75 of 1997. Skills:
Numeracy, Literacy, Language skills, Computer Literacy Other Planning and
organisation, Good verbal and written communication skills, Interpersonal
skills, Analytical skills, Problem solving, Decision Making, Ability to analyse,
conceptualise and interpret policy.
DUTIES : Render clerical support in the implementation of Workplace Skills Plan (WSP)
and Management and Leadership Development Programme (MLDP)
interventions: Record keeping of all Psychosocial Leadership support
279
interventions and MLDP related administration (Training related data and
record keeping of attendance registers, per financial year payments,
submissions, memos, etc.). Record keeping of training plans and filing. Render
WSP and training plans administration (submission, printing, packaging,
safeguarding, Sector Education and Training Authority (SETA) records, etc.).
Capture SETA related data pertaining to the WSP and Annual Training Report
(ATR) for the respective financial years. Capture the Quarterly Monitoring
Reporting (QMR). Collect WSP stakeholder and provide QMR documents on
a quarterly basis for compliance and review. Provide clerical support with the
compilation of the departmental QMR per quarter to SETA for review. Capture
quarterly training data for QMR & ATR records (database), and Department of
Basic Education (DBE) quarterly skills development reports. Provide clerical
support with the Head Office Skills Development Committee (HOSDC)
Programme. Provide clerical support with the facilitation of the rollout of
interventions, skills development related meetings, Provincial Training Institute
(PTI) booking interventions and assist with regards to guidance to
stakeholders. Render general clerical support services: Record, organise,
store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update
registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and
receive or send documents. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render clerical support in the placement and interview process of
interns/learnerships (Including Premier’s Advancement of Youth (PAY) interns):
Create and update database of PAY Interns for the WCED. Coordinate intern’s
training and organise mentor meetings. Report quarterly. Render clerical
support regarding the Recognition of Improved Qualifications (RIQ): Assist with
updating the RIQ list: Assist with all RIQ queries, write, and respond to
applicants. Assist with the compilation of the report to be submitted to
Department of Public Service Administration (DPSA). Liaise with Service
Benefits for the processing and the safe keeping thereof. Provide application
outcome timeously. Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation.
Keep and maintain capacity development records in the component. Provide
financial administration support services in the component: Capture and
update expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component. Capture, compile and maintain
documents/ records of all payments made for the component. Submit to
Finance all payments monthly. Report monthly and quarterly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2480
POST 16/385 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT REF NO: 186
District Office: Metro Central Education District Office
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 and a valid Driver’s licence. 7-12 months relevant experience.
Knowledge of the area in which the functions will be performed; basic safety
precautions; geographic locations of the district and district clients; basic
mechanical knowledge and understanding of work in the registry. Skills:
Driving. Basic communication skills. Language skills in two official languages.
Writing skills. Ability to operate reprographic machinery. Planning and
scheduling routes.
DUTIES : Render a driver service including driving light and medium motor vehicles to
transport passengers and deliver mail, documents, petty cash and goods,
performing routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle, reporting defects
timely and completing prescribed records and logbooks for the vehicle and
goods handled. Render a messenger service including collecting and
delivering documentation and related items in the district, copying and faxing
documents and assisting in the registry.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mulder Tel No: (021) 514 6955
280
POST 16/386 : HANDYMAN: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT REF NO: 188
District Office: Metro North Education District Office
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Parow
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 and 6 months relevant experience. Basic knowledge of electrical
maintenance including replacing bulbs and plugs, basic knowledge of
plumbing, carpentry and machinery, basic knowledge of building maintenance,
OHS requirements and handling of machinery and equipment. Skills: Writing,
reading and numeracy skills. Communication skills. Practical skills. Skills to
operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Maintenance of buildings including conducting regular building and ground
inspections and reporting to the Chief Administration Clerk (Facilities),
attending to minor electrical, plumbing and carpentry problems and performing
general repairs. Maintenance of office, garden equipment, machinery and
furniture including repairing broken furniture, machinery and equipment,
assessing and reporting defects, compiling lists of material requirements for
repairs, safekeeping of maintenance tools and supplies and maintaining stock
registers. Maintaining the garden and outside areas including watering the
garden, cleaning gutters, furrows and drains, pruning and trimming flowers and
trees, mowing the grass, removing weeds and garden refuse, applying
insecticides and poisons, cultivating soil for trees and flowers, maintaining
gardening equipment and tools, detecting and reporting malfunctioning of
gardening equipment and tools, repairing minor defects, requesting
maintenance material and keeping and maintaining stock registers. Performing
general assistant work including loading and offloading furniture, equipment
and goods, cleaning government vehicles, cleaning workstations and offices,
preparing and cleaning venues and raising or lowering the South African flag.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Van Schoor Tel No: (021) 938 3144
POST 16/387 : PHOTOCOPY OPERATOR: LOGISTICAL SUPPORT REF NO: 190
District Office: Metro South Education District Office
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8. Knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures regarding
reprographic services, knowledge of relevant legislation such as Occupational
Health and Safety and understanding of work in registry. Skills: Basic numeracy
and literacy. Ability to operate reprographic machinery. Language skills in two
official languages. Communication skills. Writing skills. Organising skills.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Operate photocopier machines in adherence to Occupational Health and
Safety Act requirements, make photocopies for staff, report malfunctioning
machines to the supervisor, keep records of machine activities and meter
readings, scan documents, bind and laminate documents, deliver photostats
to designated destinations and compile monthly printing reports per user based
on pin codes. Provide counter service by receiving request forms and
documents, recording documents in a register, contacting clients or delivering
documents when ready and attending to counter queries. Perform minor
maintenance on photocopier machines by identifying, recording and arranging
repair of defects, enforcing maintenance contractual agreements, arranging
servicing or repairs, arranging installation or relocation of machinery and
undertaking general maintenance and cleaning of the machine. Make
requisitions for photocopying materials by ensuring secure storage of materials
and equipment and arranging re-ordering of copy paper, staples and toners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.Engel Tel No: (021) 370 2076
281