PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 19 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 05 JUNE 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that
post of Assistant Director: Financial Accounting with Ref No: Q9/2026/30
advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 18 dated 29 May 2026 with a
closing date of 12 June 2026, please note that the closing date has been
extended to 22 June 2026. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 04
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 05 - 12
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT C 13 - 14
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING D 15 - 16
HOME AFFAIRS E 17 - 25
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 26 - 27
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT G 28 - 36
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES H 37 - 40
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT I 41 - 42
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE J 43 - 46
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE K 47 - 52
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT L 53 - 54
TOURISM M 55 - 56
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION N 57 - 59
TREASURY O 60 - 62
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG P 63 - 73
MPUMALANGA Q 74 - 95
WESTERN CAPE R 96 - 110
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
HRCrecruit39@nda.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POST
POST 19/01 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: 3/3/1/39/2026
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12 Certificate. Minimum of three (3)
years’ experience working in Human Resource environment. Job Related
Knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage
3
and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding
of the work in registry. Job Related Skills: Planning and Organising skills.
Computer operating skills. Language. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Basic numeracy skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of human resource administration practices: HR Provisioning (Recruitment and
Selection, Appointments, Transfer, verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary periods etc.). Implement
conditions of service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on
Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension, Allowance
etc.). Termination of service. Recommend (approve) transactions on PERSAL
according to delegations. (final authorisation should happen on a higher level
preferably at Assistant Director or higher level). Performance Management.
Prepare reports on human resources administration issues and statistics.
Handle human resource administration enquiries: Manage enquiries from
internal and external clients. Supervise human resources/ staff: Allocate and
ensure quality of work. Personnel development. Apply discipline. Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Themba Cebani Tel No: (049) 802 6605
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
4
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of an SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicant’s own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. For all SMS appointment, the selection panel will
recommend suitable candidate (s) to attend generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
5
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/02 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO: HR4/26/06/10HO
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in Public Administration/ Public Management/ Business
Management/Business Administration. Five (5) years of experience at a Senior
managerial level in Strategic, Operational & Administrative services.
Knowledge: ILO Conventions, Financial Management, Human Resource
Management, Social Plan Guidelines. Skills: Planning and organizing,
Communication, Computer, Analytical, Presentation, Interpersonal, Report
writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the registration of opportunities and placement. Lead and
manage the administration of the ES Board. Regulate employment of foreign
workers in terms of the ES Act and Immigration Act. Regulate Private
Employment Agencies and Temporary Employment Services. Manage all
resources within the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : DDG: PES Mr S Morotoba Tel No: (012) 309 4382
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ22@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets Departmental at SMS level-priority will be given to Africans,
Coloured Male, Indian Female, Whites and People living with disabilities.
POST 19/03 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO: HR4/26/06/11HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Social Sciences,
(Psychology)/ Industrial Psychology/Psychology/Public Administration/Public
Management/ Business Administration/ Business Management. Five (5) years
of experience at a Middle/Senior managerial level in Employment Services and
Skills Development environment. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Good
Governance, Departmental policies and procedures, General administrative
procedures, Recruitment and Selection, ILO Conventions, Financial
Management, PFMA, Labour Relations Act and Employment Equity, COIDA,
Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Facilitation, Communication, Computer, Research, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report writing, Leadership, Problem solving, Project
management.
DUTIES : Direct and manage work seeker services (registration of work seekers and
employment counselling) within the Province. Direct and manage employer
services within the Province. Ensure the provision of work schemes for the
purpose of enabling youth and other vulnerable work seekers to enter
employment, remain in employment or be self – employed. Provide leadership
and technical support on all areas of public employment services. Monitor and
report on the implementation and of Policies, Standards, Annual Performance
Plan and Work Plan. Manage all the resources of the Business Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Noel Sicwebu Tel: (012) 309 4382
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ27@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets Departmental at SMS level-priority will be given to Africans,
Coloured Male, Indian Female, Whites and People living with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/04 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kuruman-Ref No: HR4/4/8/177 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Phuthaditjhaba -Ref No: HR4/4/8/1003 (X1 Post)
6
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate bachelor’s degree
(NQF7) in Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource
Management, Labour Relations, Social Sciences, Engineering Sciences,
Public Administration/Management, Business Administration/Management,
Operations Management, Project Management, Three (3) years legal
qualification. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) at an Assistant Director
level and three (3) years’ functional experience in labour market operations
/services delivery environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management processes, Asset
Management, All Labour Legislations, Departmental policies and Procedures,
Public Service Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Service Delivery
Improvement Plan Skills: Management, Computer skills, Presentation skills,
Communication (both verbal and written), Interpersonal, Conflict Management,
Leadership, Project Management, Diversity management, Change
management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per the mandate of Department of
Employment and Labour. Represent the Department in key stakeholder forums
including interdepartmental structures of government and municipalities
including those dictated by the District Development Model (DDM). Implement
and manage service delivery improvement interventions. Manage all the
resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517 (Kuruman)
Ms E Maneli Tel No: (051) 505 6205 (Phuthaditjhaba)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301
or hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein,
9300 or hand deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, Laboria
House, Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein For online applications. Email:
Jobs-fs10@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: Priority will be given to African female, Indian male, Indian females,
White males (Kuruman)
Priority will be given to African Males, African Females, Africans with Disability
and Coloured Females((Phuthaditjhaba)
POST 19/05 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE REF
NO: HR4/4/5/02
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year recognised qualification at (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor
Degree (NQF7) in Environmental Health/ Occupational Health/ Hygiene/
Analytical Chemistry/Chemical Engineering. Valid driver’s licence. Four (4)
years functional experience in Health and Hygiene inspection services.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Ac and Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and
Regulations, OHS Standards, OHS Management System, OHSAS, Inspection
Appointment Certificate, Appointment Certificate ex-officio. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, listening and observation, Presentation, Innovative,
Communication skills, Computer literacy, Analytical skills, Research, Project
Management skills, Sense of Responsibility, Organisational Goal driven,
Disciplined and ability to meet deadlines, Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS
Legislation. Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as
per inspection programme. Conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Hygiene within identified sectors. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 9424
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X10074, Marine
Parade, Durban, 4056 or hand deliver at Government Building, Masonic Grove,
Durban. For online Applications Email: Jobs-KZN10@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : Coloured Male and White Males are encouraged to apply
7
POST 19/06 : OHS INSPECTOR: CIVIL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/03
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pinetown Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognised
qualification at NQF 6/7 in the relevant field ie, Construction/ Civil Engineering.
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South
African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations,
Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication skills,
Computer literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation
skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Gwala Tel No: (031) 713 9100
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: P. O Box 1025, Pinetown, 3610 or
hand deliver at 49 Kings Road, Pinetown 3610. For online Applications Email:
Jobs-KZN11@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : White Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 19/07 : OHS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Verulam Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/04 (X1 Post)
Pietermaritzburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/10 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre Kariega Ref No: HR4/4/9/57 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognised
qualification at NQF 6/7 in the relevant field ie, Electrical Engineering. Valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South
African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations,
Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication skills,
Computer literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation
skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
8
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Zondi Tel No: (032) 541 5603 (Verulam)
Mr M September Tel No: (033) 341 5300 (Pietermaritzburg)
Ms WX Koba Tel No: (041) 260 7047 (Kariega)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: P.O Box 1144, Verulam, 4340
or hand deliver at 11 Wick Street, Verulam. For online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN30@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Pietermaritzburg Labour Centre, Private Bag X9048,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 Or hand deliver at 370 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg, 3201. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN21@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: PO Box 562, Kariega 5200,
Hand deliver at 15A Chase Street, Kariega 6230. Email: Jobs-
ECUHG@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Priority will be given to African Male, White Males, White Females,
Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Females, Indian Males and People
with Disability (Kariega)
EE Targets: White Males are encouraged to apply (Verulam &
Pietermaritzburg)
POST 19/08 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OPERATIONS (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Postmarsburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/169 (X2 Posts)
Kimberly Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/170 (X1 Post)
Upington Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/171 (X1 Post)
Springbok Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/172 (X2 Posts)
Kuruman Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/173 (X2 Posts)
De Aar Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/174 (X2 Posts)
Calvinia Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/175 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management / Public
Administration or Management/ Business Administration or Management /
Administrative Management/ Management / Financial Accounting/ Finance at
NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Valid Driver’s license. Two (2) years
functional experience in Client Services environment / Claims Processing
environment in operations or Insurance environment. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act (UICA), Department of Employment and Labour &
UIF Policies and Procedure, Operations System, Batho Pele Principles,
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Interpersonal,
Presentation, Listening, Communication (Verbal and written), Computer
Literacy, Problem Solving, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance services through interaction with customers.
Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment Insurance
applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services. Supervise
resource (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road.
Postmarsburg Labour Centre – Email: NC-Postmasburg@labour.gov.za
Kuruman Labour Centre- Email: NC-Kuruman@labour.gov.za
Kimberly Labour Centre- Email: NC-Kimberley@labour.gov.za
Calvinia Labour Centre- Email: NC-Calvinia@labour.gov.za
Springbok Labour Centre- Email: NC-Springbok@labour.gov.za
Upington Labour Centre- Email: NC-Upingtion@labour.gov.za
De Aar Labour Centre- Email: NC-DeAar@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indians and White males.
POST 19/09 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR 4/4/8/176 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Valid driver’s
license. Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement
Services. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures, Skills
9
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA,
SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment
Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing,
Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem
solving, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and conduct substantive inspection with the aim of enforcing and ensuring
compliance with labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA),
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act (COIDA), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), and UI
Contribution Act (UCA), Plan and execute investigations independently on
reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour legislation and enforce as
and when necessary including making preparations for and appearing in Court
as a State witness. Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspection regularly to monitor
compliance with labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaign on labour
legislations regularly. Draft Contributes to planning, drafting and maintenance
of regional inspection plans and reports including execution of analysis and
compilation of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
Supervise the resources in the Sub-section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. Email: NC-
Upingtion@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 19/10 : BCEA INSPECTOR: INSPECTION SERVICES (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Newcastle Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/05 (X1 Post)
Stanger Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/06 (X1 Post)
Verulam Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/07 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification (NQF6) in Labour Relations/BCOM Law/
LLB. A valid drivers’ licence. Knowledge: Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Departmental policies and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour
Relations Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Employment Equity Act, Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (own work),
Computer Literacy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing
skills, Analytical, Communication skills.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (034) 312 3334
Mr M Mwelase Tel No: (032) 307 0989
Mr MC Zondi Tel No: (032) 541 5603
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Newcastle Labour Centre, PO Box 985, Newcastle 2940 Or
hand deliver at 29 Scott Street, Newcastle. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN20@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: P.O. Box 138, Stanger 4450 or
hand deliver at 12 Cator Street, Stanger, 4001. For online Applications Email
to: Jobs-KZN25@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: P.O Box 1144, Verulam 4340 or
hand deliver at 11 Wick Street, Verulam. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN30@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : White Males are encouraged to apply
POST 19/11 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Richards Bay- Ref No: HR4/4/5/8 (X1 Post)
10
Labour Centre: Verulam-Ref No: HR4/4/5/9 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; no experience required. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Computer literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem solving, Listening,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services, Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Ximba Tel No: (035) 780 8708 (Richards Bay)
Mr MC Zondi Tel No: (032) 541 5603 (Verulam)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Richards Bay Labour Centre/Private Bag X20033,
Empangeni 3880 Or hand deliver at 11 Lira Rink Road, Richards Bay. For
Online Applications: Jobs-KZN28@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Verulam Labour Centre, PO Box 1144, Verulam 4340 Or
hand deliver at Wick Street, Verulam. For Online Applications: Jobs-
KZN30@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Indians, Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 19/12 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK MSS: REF NO: HR4/4/9/55
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre East London
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. No functional experience required.
Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles, Departmental Policies and Procedures,
Treasury Regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy, Communication (verbal and
written), Interpersonal, Planning and Organising, Analytical, Problem solving.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management function in a Labour Centre Daily.
Provide a Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre Daily.
Render a Human Resource Management. Responsible for training and
performance activities in a Labour Centre Daily. Responsible for the records
management in a Labour Centre Daily.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7501
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9084, East
London, 5201, Hand deliver at IGI Building, Ensuco House, Cnr Oxford and Hill
Street, East London, 5201. Email: Jobs-ECELN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites, African Males and People
with Disability.
POST 19/13 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/5/08
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation / Grade 12 / Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles,
DOL’s Policies and Procedures, Access to Public premises and vehicles Act,
Evacuation procedures, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Criminal
Procedure Act. Skills: Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal
relations, Problem solving, Communication, Conflict Management, Computer
Literacy
DUTIES : Monitor all activities at access control point, Monitor control room to detect
unlawful movement in and around the building, Render front line services to
internal and external clients, Patrol in the building to ensure safety measures,
Control all deliveries at Durban Labour Centre
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 9424
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X10074 Marine
Parade Durban, 4056 or hand deliver at Government Building, Masonic Grove,
Durban. For online Applications Email: Jobs-KZN16@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males and White Males are encouraged to apply
POST 19/14 : OFFICE AID: MSS REF NO: HR4/4/9/56
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre East London
11
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 08/Grade 10. No experience required. Knowledge: Cleaning
Practices, Catering and Office Practice. Skills: Verbal Communication,
Interpersonal and Listening.
DUTIES : Ensure a clean office environment at all times. Provide food services’ aid.
Assist in distributing stock. Assist with messenger functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7501
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9084, East London,
5201, Hand deliver at IGI Building, Ensuco House, Cnr Oxford and Hill Street,
East London, 5201. Email: Jobs-ECELN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites, African Males
and People with Disability.
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria or apply using the
provided link found at the end of this advertisement.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026, 16:00
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 19/15 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE: BUDGET REF NO: CFO23/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
13
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Accounting/Financial Management or relevant
qualification within the related field. A minimum of one (1) year experience in
Financial Management or related field. Knowledge of financial management,
accounting, and business practices. Knowledge of BAS. Knowledge of Public
Service Financial Legislative Frameworks. Ability to apply policies, strategies,
and legislation. Ability to work under pressure, ability to work individually and
in a team and ability to work with difficult people and to resolve conflict. Good
interpersonal relations skills, good computer skills and advanced skills in
financial management.
DUTIES : Compile MTEF, ENE and AENE databases in line with Treasury Guidelines.
Quality assure inputs, consolidate and prepare the necessary information
required for the completion of the budgeting processes. Capture all budget on
BAS including Budget Rollovers, Shifting of Funds and Virements. Compile In
year monitoring (IYM) processes and compliance to reporting requirements in
terms of the PFMA and Treasury regulations. Provide Monthly Expenditure
Reporting against Cashflow.
ENQUIRIES : Tansen Bissumbhur Tel No: (012) 399 9215
APPLICATIONS : e-recruit
14
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(False Bay TVET College)
False Bay Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College is inviting applications from
suitably qualified candidates to fill the following vacancies.
APPLICATIONS : Apply online at https://falsebayz83.ngnscan.co.za/
CLOSING DATE : 23 June 2026. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on application but must submit a fully signed Z83 form and
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications received
after the closing date and those that do not comply with the requirements will
not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications and national certificates (where applicable) evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 19/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
ASD/FA/CO/25/05/2026
SALARY : R487197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : False Bay TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric. Recognized National Diploma (NQF6)in Financial
Management at NQF 7 or equivalent qualification ,3-5 years’ experience in
Financial Management environment with supervisory experience, Proficient in
Microsoft Office, Knowledge of PSET and CET Act, Knowledge and
understanding PFMA, Knowledge and understanding Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, Knowledge
of Financial Management Systems, Valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Knowledge of PSET and CET Act., Knowledge and understanding Treasury
Regulations Skills Development Act, Public, Service Regulations and Public
Service Act, knowledge of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme and
related legislation.
DUTIES : Collection and recording of revenue, Cashier, banking service and electronic
payments, Monitor and review the procedures for the collection and
safekeeping of all monies and compliance with the relevant prescripts Monitor
and review the receipts and collection of monies to ensure that it is in
accordance with the appropriate tariffs and properly recorder. Oversee that
banking of monies is done in accordance with the prescribed processes.
Oversee that bank reconciliations are performed and are correct. Oversee the
verification of the validity and allocation of payments received via electronic
transfers. Oversee the safeguarding of source documents and face value. Debt
Management: Oversee the identification and accurate recording of debts owed
to the department. Liaise with debtors the most complex and problematic cases
to determine payback conditions and time span. Oversee the process of
obtaining the accounting officers approval for debt collection conditions. Obtain
the accounting officers approval for debt payback conditions and time span on
the cases handled. Oversee the accurate allocation of monies received.
Monitoring and reporting on revenue: Oversee and monitor income against
budget and review reconciliations. Oversee and undertake the develop of
corrective measures when required. Oversee and collate financial supporting
information for planning purposes. Ensure completeness and accuracy of
15
financial information. Expenditure Management: Compensation of employees:
Oversee the verification of the capturing of payroll transactions on the
accounting system. Oversee the quality assure all payroll transactions.
Authorizes reimbursement transactions on the accounting system. Oversee
the reconciliation of transactions (interface) on the payroll (PERSAL) with the
accounting system (BAS) Authorizes payments to third parties (employer
contributions to pension funds, medical aid funds, tax contributions and
reconciliation etc.) outside the payroll system. Oversee verification of
information for payroll certification. Goods and services: Oversee verification
of source documents, oversee the quality assurance and verification of
transactions on BAS/LOGIS, and ensure that expenditure is in line with the
budget and item provisioning. Oversee the correct capturing of banking details
on the accounting system. Oversee creditor reconciliation (ensure that service
providers are paid timely and correctly). Transfers and subsidies: Oversee and
reconcile payment requests with budget provisions and the availability of funds.
Oversee the process to ensure that the relevant institution is eligible for a
transfer payment /subsidy and that they comply with the relevant financial
legislative requirements. Authorise the payment of transfers and subsidies
processed on the accounting system. Reporting: Oversee the processing of
information to determine expenditure against budget. Review and analyse
expenditure reports, distribute to budget holders and obtain inputs on
expenditure status. Oversee the compilation of interim and annual reports on
conditional grants. Ensure the safeguarding of all source documents.
Supervise employees to ensure an effective financial accounting service. This
would inter alia entail the following: General supervision of employees, allocate
duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervises, Advice and
lead supervisees with regards to all aspects of the work. Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes
to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : S Baboo Tel No: (021) 787 0800
16
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment
to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based
candidates on grounds of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling
of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to
women. Persons falling in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
CLOSING DATE : 26 June 2026
NOTE : The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional,
passionate and talented individuals to form part of a new leadership team,
equipped with the right skills to facilitate the transformation of Home Affairs into
a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to delivering on
the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation,
ascribe to the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on
the needs of DHA Clients with the highest levels of dignity, integrity and
innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of the following
positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA complies with the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Applicants’
personal information will be used for recruitment purposes, retained where
required for audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised disclosure, except
where legally required. Submission of an application constitutes consent to
such processing. Applications: Applications must be submitted online at
https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent to the correct address specified at the
bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date, accompanied by a fully
completed Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1
January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number
and job title, and a comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy),
job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable employment
references (as recent as possible), regardless of online or manual submission.
All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will
also be required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license
(if specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving a
prescribed probation period and obtaining a security clearance appropriate to
the post will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/17 : LOCAL OFFICE MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 - R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Limpopo: Large Office: Jane Furse: Limpopo Ref No: HRMC 30/26/1a (X1
Post)
North West: Large Office: Klerksdorp Ref No: HRMC 30/26/1b (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience at a Junior Management / Assistant
Director level in Operations in a client or customer services environment.
17
Experience in Civic or Immigration Operations will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as
Government Structures. Excellent abilities and experience in project
management, project optimization and use of online systems. Knowledge of
National Treasury Regulations and Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory Framework and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge of
workflow and capacity planning. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) and Promotion of Access to Information Act
(PAIA). A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Strong Management and Leadership
capability. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus.
People management and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and
project management. Change management. Ability to instil appropriate
processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the
Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
report writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Policy
interpretation. Risk Management. Influencing, networking, conflict
management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information Management.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the overall operations and performance of the Office
against agreed service delivery standards. Provide advice and guidance on
operations of the Department at a Local Office level. Manage the provision of
safe and secure enabling documents as it relates to citizenship, births,
marriages, death, travel documents and passports. Ensure delivery against the
mandates derived from the Government’s Programme of Action (POA). Ensure
effective management and oversight of the Local Office’s Immigration
Inspectorate activities. Foster effective partnerships with all stakeholders and
represent the Office at various forums. Ensure the effective implementation of
strategic objectives and innovation (digital transformation and case
management solutions) in the Local Office. Coordinate and monitor delivery of
the Local Office’s operational plan against agreed timeframes and objectives.
Implement governance processes, frameworks, policies, procedures and
manage risks. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Local Office. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
North West: Mr L Appels Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
North West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street, Mafikeng,
2745
POST 19/18 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO:
HRMC 30/26/2
Sub-Directorate: Occupational Health and Safety
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Environmental Studies, Occupational Health
and Safety, Occupational Health Hygiene, Safety Management, Public
Administration, Public Management, or Human Resources Management with
specialisation in Employee Wellness or Occupational Health and Safety or
relevant at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 years’ experience in a Junior
Management / Assistant Director / Specialist role in Occupational Health and
Safety (OHS) / Environmental Management or an Employee Wellness
generalist environment is required. SAMTRACK / courses offered by NOSA is
required. Knowledge of Safety, Health, Environment, Risk and Quality
Management (SHERQ). Knowledge of the relevant sections of the
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA) and
18
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Knowledge and understanding of all legislations, policies and
prescripts. Knowledge of Anti-corruption legislation, LRA, BCEA, PSA.
Knowledge of policy development and government protocol. Knowledge of
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Excellent
abilities and experience in project management, project optimization, and the
use of online systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and Leadership
Execution. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Financial Management.
Programme and Project Management. Decision-Making Skill. Business
Continuity. Conflict Management. Workplace Safety Assessment. Influencing
and networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Conflict
resolution and management. OHS risk Assessment. Business report writing.
Presentation Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Planning and
Organising Skills. Analytical thinking Skills. Facilitation Skills. Problem Solving
and Analysis. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and manage Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)
procedures in the department. Analyse health trends and develop appropriate
actions. Conduct incident investigation (formal and informal) and audit
approved inspections authorities Occupational Hygiene, First Aid. Ensure that
safety, accident reduction and health survey programs are implemented. Form
part of the disaster task team Committee. Form part of the risk assessment
task team responsible for occupation or relocation of offices. Compile and
consolidate monthly, quarterly and annual reports on OHS. Coordinate and
monitor disaster. Coordinate and support quarterly Safety health Environment
Committee meetings physically in the Department (Head Office and
Provinces). Conduct Audit occupational hygiene and safety according to the
OHS Act. Attend various site meetings and provide specialist advice on OHS
matters. Write Occupational Safety and Health incidents reports. Ensure the
business achieve OHS objectives and targets. Conduct risk assessment,
provide advice and recommend on range of specialist areas such as fire
regulations, hazardous substances, noise, safeguarding machinery and
occupational diseases. Maintain strong focus on health and safety within the
work environment and demonstrate accountability for actions. Ensure that
occupational hygiene and medical surveillance are conducted on work areas
to identify potential incidents on health hazards. Coordinate OHS processes,
standards and principles. Develop and implement policy, and procedure,
directive, acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working
relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders. Implement
effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 19/19 : LOCAL OFFICE MANAGER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Medium Office: Commercial Road Ref No: HRMC 30/26/3a
(X1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Medium Office: Tongaat Ref No: HRMC 30/26/3b (X1 Post)
: Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Komatipoort Ref No: HRMC 30/26/3c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience as a Supervisor in Operations in a
Client or customer services environment. Experience in Civic or Immigration
Operations will be an added advantage. Knowledge of South African
Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
19
Excellent abilities and experience in project management, project optimization
and use of online systems. Knowledge of National Treasury Regulations and
Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory
Framework and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of workflow
and capacity planning. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act (PAJA) and Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). A valid
drivers’ license. Working extended hours may be required. Required skills and
competencies: Strong Management and Leadership capability. Service
delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus. People management
and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and project
management. Change management. Ability to instil appropriate processes and
systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the Department in
efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support digital
transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as report
writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Policy
interpretation. Risk Management. Influencing, networking, conflict
management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information Management.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Manage Operations of the Civic Services in the Local
Office in accordance with the service delivery standards. Coordinate and
monitor the effective processing of enabling documents in local office and DHA
service points. Manage the security integrity of the national register in local
offices. Participate on outstretch programmes to ensure the accessibility of
DHA services by the public. Develop and Implement Civic Services strategies
and plans. Ensure that Operations in Local Offices meet the needs of the
clients in line with the departmental service standards. Collate, interpret and
manage statistical information on service standards, throughout times,
bottlenecks, volumes and error rates. Monitor and enforce the implementation
of standard operating procedures (SOP’s) within Local Offices that adhere to
the set requirements. Provide expert advice and guidance to Local Offices on
Operational issues and matters. Serve as a project leader within the Local
Offices to ensure effective project in management implementation. Ensure
effective and efficient management of queues. Manage the revenue collected
from clients on services rendered by the Office. Manage Immigration Services
Operations in the Local Office in line with Immigration Act. Establish and
maintain relationships with stakeholders to support service delivery.
Implementation of Policies, Procedures, Directives, Acts and Regulations.
Manage governance risk and compliance (GRC). Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Local
Office. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200.
POST 19/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HRMC 30/26/4
Branch: Finance and Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Office Management and Technology,
Business Management, Administration Management, Public Management or
Public Administration at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’
experience at Supervisory / Senior Administrative Officer is required.
Experience in Administrative support and monitoring of the budget is required.
Knowledge of Office Administration. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public
service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government
Structures. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
Treasury regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Regulatory Framework. A
valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
20
skills and competencies: Accountability. Service Delivery. Innovation. Budget
and Expenditure Administration. Problem Solving. Business Continuity. Time
Management. Database and spreadsheet applications. Planning and
Organizing. Conflict Resolution skills. Ability to meet deadlines.
Communication. Office Management and Administration. Presentation skills.
Asset management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Computer
literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate finance and administration processes within the unit.
Control the administration of office maintenance, financial, human resources,
and procurement matters in the Unit. Control the flow of correspondence and
monitor target dates and turnaround times. Facilitate the management of the
Chief Directorate's financial projections/analysis, reporting. Compile financial
and administration reports and documents (S&T claims and travelling). Provide
expert advice to administrators in the Chief Directorate on the consolidation of
the Directorates’ budget/ financial information. Facilitate and monitor the
budget of the Chief Directorate according to Medium Term Expenditure
Framework processes in the Office. Ensure the effective compilation of budget
and cash flow projections, analysis, and reporting. Manage a variety of
administrative duties related to human resources, financial administration and
provisioning services at the operational level. Coordinate the budget of the
Chief Directorate on the spending plan, expenditure and budget of the Chief
Directorate. Monitor financial and budget allocations with administrators in the
Chief Directorate. Evaluate financial documents for completeness, format and
linguistic correctness. Management of the communication system, e.g.
(documentation flow, system development, follow-up system and target dates).
Convene and attend Chief Directorate meetings and act as secretariat during
meetings. Monitor financial irregularities and take on precautionary measures
to prevent unauthorised, wasteful, and fruitless expenditure. Liaise with
Directors and administrators in the Chief Directorate in consolidating budget
reports, including narrative and any recommendations. Facilitate the
management of Assets in line with Asset and Supply Chain Management
Framework. Facilitate the effective operational and administrative support to
the Chief Director. Ensure effective risk and compliance management related
to Finance and Supply Chain Management. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 19/21 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Large Office: Ethekwini Ref No: HRMC 30/26/5a (X1 Post)
North West: Large Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HRMC 30/26/5b (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Large Office: Bellville Ref No: HRMC 30/26/5c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 2 Years’ experience in Operations in a Client or
Customer Services environment is required. Experience in Civic or Immigration
Operations and a drivers licence may be an added advantage. Knowledge of
front office operations. Extensive knowledge of various filing systems.
Knowledge of fingerprint verification. Knowledge and understanding of Civic
Services Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management process and
procedures. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory Framework. Work extended
hours may be required. Required skills and competencies: Customer Focus.
Analytical thinking. Planning and organising. Problem Solving. Verbal and
written Communication. Financial Administration. Interpersonal skills. Attention
to detail. Clerical and Administration. Multi-tasking. Supervisory skills.
Teamwork. Time Management. Conflict Management and Resolution.
Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
21
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Facilitate the administration of the front-line office in an
effective manner. Ensure enquiries are attended to and perform online (meter
greeter) verification. Ensure the monitoring of the live capture photo boot in the
department. Facilitate the verification and validation of client information on
system, fingerprint, scan client supporting document online. Ensure the
effective delivery of ID smart cards. Facilitate and quality assure the
authorisation and collection of applications from clients. Facilitate the
implementation of security control processes and policies. Attend to
problematic areas related to general services to all clients. Facilitate the
implementation of BMD (Birth, Marriage and Death) and ID smart cards
operations. Facilitate and monitor effective daily operations of the front office.
Build and maintain relationships with clients. Ensure the implementation of
effective governance, risk, and compliance management practices. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Local Office. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
North West: Mr L Appels Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409 / (021) 488 1412
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
North West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street,
Mafikeng, 2745.
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000.
POST 19/22 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: PLANNING AND BUDGETING REF NO:
HRMC 30/26/6
Branch: Finance and Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Management, BCom Accounting,
Management Accounting at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two (2)
years’ experience in budgeting / planning / financial administration environment
is required. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Understanding of departmental legislation as well as Human
Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge of the National Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of the Appropriation Act. Knowledge of the planning
and budgeting process and related activities. Knowledge of Financial Risk
Management Practices. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts
(SCOA). Knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS). Knowledge of
Vulindlela. Willingness to travel. Required skills and competencies: Planning
and organising. Financial accounting. Record Management. Reconciliation and
reporting. SCOA application. Use of financial systems (BAS/Vulindlela).
Attention to detail. Time management. Problem-solving skills. Interpersonal
skills. Communication skills. Planning and Organising skills. Computer literacy
skills. Numeracy and analytical skills. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Render the implementation of budget administration and
allocations. Capture and monitor the administration of budget on Basic
Accounting Systems (BAS). Capture the budget in line with the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Capture budget adjustments (MTEF/AENE/Self
Financing/Roll-overs) for the financial year on approved system (BAS).
Capture virements and shiftings for the financial year. Report on budget versus
expenditure and cash flow. Compile daily, weekly and monthly budget versus
expenditure reports. Produce in year monitoring (IYM) shifting and virement
schedules. Verify SCOA allocation document compiled by the System
Controller. Ensure effective and e-fficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe Tel No: (012) 406 4252
22
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 19/23 : CIVIC SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: HRMC 30/26/7
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Limpopo: Medium Office: Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields at NQF level 6 recognized by
SAQA. 1 year of experience in Operations, client or customer services
environment. Knowledge of front office operations. Extensive knowledge of
various filing systems. Knowledge of fingerprint verification. Knowledge and
Understanding of Civic Services Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management process and procedures. A valid Driver's License. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Overtime may be required on request
occasionally. Weekend working may be required on request occasionally.
Required skills and competencies: Computer literacy. Analytic thinking.
Planning and organising. Problem solving. Problem solving. Verbal and written
communication. Financial administration. Planning and skills, Interpersonal.
Attention to detail. Clerical and administrative. Professionalism. Compassion.
Conscientious. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise the effective daily operations of civic services of
offices. Ensure effective service delivery and assist staff where service
standards are not met. Produce quality reports regarding turnaround times
(documents processed and error rates). Implement quality assurance
measures to ensure quality of service delivery. Ensure safekeeping of
records/documentation according to DHA requirements. Allocate work to staff
members and monitor their progress against daily targets or goals. Perform
end-of-day duties to ensure effective reporting, identification of issues and
capturing of performance statistics. Identify challenges in operations (capacity,
training, bottlenecks) and make suggestions to Superiors. Identify trends and
take corrective action. Perform overriding functions on system. Ensure full
implementation of all relevant SOPs. Implement incidental matters ensure that
the identity of illegal foreigner who are arrested, detained or convicted.
Supervise the application of ID smart cards, BMD Registration of Birth,
Marriages and Deaths, Late Registration, Rectification and Amendment of
particulars and issuing of Travel and Citizenship documents. Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within
the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699.
POST 19/24 : CIVIC SERVICES CLERK (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (Level 06), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Large Office: Lusikisiki Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8a (X1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mqanduli Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8b (X1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8c (X1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Phuthatditjhaba Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8d (X2 Posts)
Limpopo: PSP: Praktiseer Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8e (X1 Post)
Limpopo: Large Office: Mokopane Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8f (X1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Bela Bela Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8g (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga: PSP: Kabokweni Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8h (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga: PSP: Mbibane Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8i (X1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kimberley Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8j (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Malmesbury Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8k (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Large Office: Paarl Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8l (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Worcester Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8m (X1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Wynberg Ref No: HRMC 30/26/8n (X4 Posts)
23
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management or Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields at NQF level 6 recognized by
SAQA. Basic understanding Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of Civic Services Regulatory Frameworks, Knowledge of the Batho
Pele Principles. Knowledge of Fraud prevention. Knowledge of the
Constitution. Knowledge of the Departmental Regulations and Prescripts.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Interpersonal Skills. Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
Computer Literacy. Communication Skills (Written and Verbal). Telephone
etiquette. Analytical Skills. Professionalism. Compassion. Conscientious.
Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Attend to enquiries and perform online verification. Greet
customers, and ensure that they receive a professional, warm and friendly
welcome. Provide customers with orientation and information on the services
required. Check status of the applicant (Fingerprint register on HANIS and
marital status), and conduct online verification and issue a ticket. Provide
advice and direction to relevant unit and ensure the highest customer service
standards. Operate in front and behind the pay barrier and the point of contact
for customers. Direct customers to relevant service departments in a timely
manner and with the highest customer service standards. Ensure that all the
customers waiting areas are maintained in the highest standards as per the
appearance, accessibility and demarcation. Ensures that the customer
receives the highest service standards in accordance with the departmental
values and vision statements. Monitor the records of all cases. Monitor the
influx of foreigners residing in the country with no legal documentation.
Implement incidental matters ensure that the identity of illegal foreigner who
are arrested, detained or convicted. Operate the live capture photo booth in the
office. Verify, validate and capture client information on system, administer
fingerprints, scan client supporting documents. Receive, scan and file smart
cards upon receipt. Process collections of ID smart cards to clients. Process
application of Identity Document, Registration of Birth, Marriages and Deaths,
Late Registrations. Rectifications and Amendments of particulars and issuing
of citizenship documents. Implement policies and procedures in line with the
approval Framework. Monitor individual resources (Physical).
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama Tel No: (043) 604 6417
Free State: Ms V Molefe Tel No: (051) 430 0378
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409 / Tel No: (012) 488 1412
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600.
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein,
9301.
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200.
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan
Road, Kimberley, 8300.
POST 19/25 : IMMIGRATION OFFICER: INSPECTORATE (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (Level 06), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Large Office: Mthatha Ref No: HRMC 30/26/9a (X1 Post)
Head Office: Tshwane: Branch: Immigration Services: Inspectorate Ref No:
HRMC 30/26/9b (X12 Posts)
KwaZulu-Natal: Large Office: Ethekwini Ref No: HRMC 30/26/9c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public
Administration, Policing Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF
level 6 as recognised by SAQA is required. Basic understanding of the
Refugees Act and Immigration Act. Basic understanding of South African
Constitution. Basic understanding of the Immigration Act. Basic understanding
Public Service Regulatory Framework. A valid driver’s license (Code B/C1/C/
24
EC1). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP). Willingness to travel outside the
borders and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Liaison
and interpersonal skills. Problem-Solving Skills. Customer orientation.
Planning and Organising. Strong Analytical Skills. Computer Literacy. Written
and verbal communication. Diplomacy. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Effective enforcement of the Immigration Act 13 of 2002 as
amended and other Legislation. Detect, trace, detain and prosecute illegal
foreigners within the country. Process the deportation of illegal foreigners out
of the country to their country of origin. Provide support on law enforcement
investigations and anti-corruption cases. Conduct inspections in loco with or
without warrant as allowed by law. Conduct investigations on any
transgressions of the Immigration Act, 2002, the Refugee Act, 1998 or other
departmental legislation. Enable prosecutions of transgressions of
departmental legislation and the Criminal Procedure Act. Issue notices to
appear in front of the Director–General to transgressors. Process and present
evidence in court and Departmental cases. Issue admission of guilt to fines to
transgressors. Conduct interviews and investigation of foreigners who are
suspected to be illegal in the transgressors. Process the application and the
extensions of detention warrants. Monitor the records of all cases. Monitor the
influx of foreigners residing in the country with no legal documentation.
Implement incidental matters ensure that the identity of illegal foreigner who
are arrested, detained or convicted. Conduct arrests and deporting of illegal
foreigners who are unwilling to leave the country voluntarily. Participate in
training session that will enable advanced knowledge and understanding in
detecting illegal foreigners in line with Immigration Act.No13 of 2002 as
amended and enforcing departmental legislation. Ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of permits. Participate in the processing of illegal
foreigners for deportation to their country of origin. Participate in law
enforcement operations with other security cluster agencies. Provide expert
evidence and statement to support law enforcement and crime combatting
investigation efforts that require departmental evidence. Participate in regular
training and personal development to be able to undertake the tasks as an
effective law enforcement peace office. Conduct deportation processes and
keep records of foreigners (legal and illegal) in the country. Safekeep, maintain
and manage state properties and assets. Implement policies and procedures
in line with the approved Framework. Monitor individual resources (Physical).
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama Tel No: (043) 604 6417
Head Office: Ms B Kabinde Tel No: (012) 406 4239
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase
Street, Pretoria, 0001.
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
25
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Legal Services Ombud, P O Box 1202,
Pretoria 0001 OR Physical address: 2007 Spooral Park, SA Law Reform
Offices, Lenchen South Avenue, Centurion OR Email:
OLSOENQUIRIES@JUSTICE.GOV.ZA
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the department, noting the different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of
section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of
1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where
driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE
Target.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/26 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO): OFFICE OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
OMBUD (OLSO) REF NO: 01 /05/26 OLSO 01
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 554 696 – R1 858 821 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in Public Administration/ Political Science/
Social Science or relevant equivalent qualification; Postgraduate and LLB
qualifications will be an added advantage; 5 years’ experience at Senior
Management level within legal practice environment; Nyukela certificate is
required for all SMS positions before appointment (Certificate for Entry into the
Senior Management Service from the School of Government); Knowledge of
Financial Management and related prescripts; Knowledge of administration,
strategy and policy development; Knowledge and understanding of social
dynamics related to Office of the Legal Services Ombud (OLSO) mandate;
Investigation and litigation; Governance, Contract Law; Knowledge and
26
understanding of the Ethics of the Legal Profession; Knowledge of the Legal
Practice Act; General knowledge of the law and legal practice; Practical
knowledge and understanding of investigative approaches methodologies;
Knowledge of evidence gathering and leading of evidence techniques and
approaches; Practical knowledge and understanding of drafting legal
instruments; Practical knowledge and understanding of litigation management
processes; Practical knowledge and understanding of interpreting statutes;
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, knowledge of POPIA, PAJA
and PAIA; Skills and competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management and Diversity; Knowledge Management; Problem Solving and
Analysis; People Management and Empowerment; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Honest and Intergrity; Communication.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor investigations and define complaints
investigative scope and process in line with mandate of the Office of the Legal
Services Ombud (OLSO); Lead the development of organizational long term
and short-term strategies; Oversee the provisioning of stakeholder
management services and community outreach programmes; Manage
organisational performance by ensuring that OLSO strategic goals and
objectives are met; Ensure the provision of organisational risk, anti-corruption
and integrity management services; oversee the management of ICT systems
to ensure that services rendered to the public are efficient and accessible;
create an enabling and conducive environment for the investigations of
complaints; manage the development and implementation of corporate related
policies; manage and oversee the financial governance of OLSO by preparing
budget, expenditure, costing, management reporting and internal control
processes for the OLSO; manage human resources, supply chain and asset
management and oversee the provision of facilities management services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MV Shivuri Tel No: (010) 023 5508
27
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc), where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of Public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates' managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts, or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying, you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The position of Control Survey Technician with Ref No:
3/1/1/1/2026/45 for the Directorate: Coordination of State and Land Reform
Surveys: Gauteng (Pretoria) that was advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 18 dated 29 May 2026 has reference. The Reference number was
incorrectly stated; the correct reference number is 3/1/1/1/2026/46. The
Department apologies for any inconvenience caused.
28
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/27 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: NARYSEC AND RURAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/56
Chief Directorate: National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC) and Rural
Skills Development
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Deree or Advanced Diploma in Education / Skills
Development / Training and Development (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years of experience at senior managerial level in education and
training environment. Job-related knowledge: Integrated Rural Development.
Education, training and development. Project management and public
administration. Programme planning, analysis, development, and evaluation.
Considerable knowledge and understanding of the NARYSEC programme and
operations, and the procurement and contracting requirements. Social
development. Economic development. Institutional development. Rural
development. Job-related skills: Communication (verbal and written).
Presentation. Strategic planning and leadership. Presentation and facilitation.
Report writing and presentation. People management. Financial management.
Project planning, analysis and management. Monitoring and evaluation.
Negotiation and conflict resolution. A valid driver’s licence and willingness to
travel extensively.
DUTIES : Lead and oversee training and skills development. Identify training and skills
development opportunities for rural communities including vulnerable groups
such as youth, women and people with disabilities (linked to socio-economic
opportunities in area). Develop and implement a skills development strategies
and programmes to improve human development capacity of rural
communities. Quality assures skills development programmes. Identify and
implement exit opportunities, job creation and enterprise development.
Monitoring and evaluation of training development programmes. Oversee
delivery of skills development institutions. Lead and oversee national exit
opportunities project implementation. Identify and implement national exit
opportunities and projects. Facilitate and coordinate the implementation of
projects. Mobilise and manage skills development and exit opportunities
stakeholders. Provide project management office services. Monitor and
evaluate programmes including quality assurance. Report programme
progress on a monthly basis, quarterly and annual basis as required. Lead
youth development programmes in rural areas. Facilitate and manage youth
development programmes aligned to priority areas. Ensure that programmes
are implemented and coordinated working with provincial government, district
municipalities and stakeholders. Lead NARYSEC support services. Manage
NARYSEC and rural skills development policies and practices. Manage
financial services to the NARYSEC rural skills development programme at
national government level. Manage payroll and records management. Manage
supply chain services at national level working with relevant units. Manage
database and information service to NARYSEC participants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post56@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 19/28 : DIRECTOR: NARYSEC REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/51
Directorate: National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
29
CENTRE : Northern Cape: (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Education / Training / Skills Development / Human Resource
Development / Development Studies / Social Science / Public Relations at
(NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at
middle/senior managerial level in youth development programmes. Job-related
knowledge: Good knowledge of relevant policies and legislation. Good
knowledge of institutional governance systems and performance management.
Knowledge of both theoretical and practical aspects of education and skills
development. Knowledge of youth development. Knowledge of employment
and business development. Knowledge and understanding of
intergovernmental relations. Job-related skills: Critical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Planning and organising. Decision making. Communication
(verbal and written). Influencing and leading. Delegation. Teamwork.
Negotiation. Conflict management. Public relations. Stakeholder management.
Financial management. Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in the implementation of NARYSEC programme.
Develop integrated operational plans in line with the departmental strategic
plan and annual performance plan targets. Ensure that IOP reports are
prepared and submitted timeously. Identify, secure and maintain partnerships
to support NARYSEC programme. Implement a marketing strategy for
NARYSEC programme. Provide strategic and management oversight for the
skills development of the NARYSEC youth at provincial level. Identify
appropriate skills development interventions for youth, aligned to the confirmed
economic opportunities. Ensure the development of a provincial skills
development plan. Ensure the preparation of training approval submissions
and obtain approval for the planned skills development interventions. Ensure
the services of accredited training providers are procured. Monitor the
implementation of skills development interventions. Ensure the certification of
the youth on completion of their training. Ensure skills development reporting.
Provide strategic and management oversight for the administration and
governance of NARYSEC programme at provincial level. Ensure quality
assurance and payment of stipends to the NARYSEC participants. Ensure the
quality assurance of training providers invoices and the payment thereof.
Ensure adherence to NARYSEC policies and standard operating procedures.
Manage the financial, human and other resources for the NARYSEC
programme at the provincial level. Provide strategic management of
information in the NARYSEC directorate. Ensure monthly and quarterly
reporting. Oversee the implementation of operational risk and fraud registers.
Ensure implementation of relevant management action plan on audit report
findings. Ensure that all queries related to NARYSEC programme are
responded to within the required timeframes. Provide strategic and
management oversight for the recruitment of unemployed rural youth into the
NARYSEC sub-programme at provincial level. Ensure implementation and
compliance to NARYSEC recruitment strategy. Ensure involvement of relevant
stakeholders for the planning and implementation of the recruitment. Ensure
the development of provincial recruitment plans. Ensure the development
NARYSEC recruitment adverts. Ensure the qualifying youth are recruited,
contracted, and registered on PERSAL. Ensure the registration of the recruited
youth onto the NARYSEC Information Management System (NIMS). Provide
NARYSEC support services. Manage NARYSEC policies and practices.
Provide financial services to the NARYSEC programme at provincial level.
Conduct payroll and records management. Provide NARYSEC supply chain
services at provincial level. Provide information service to NARYSEC
participants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post51@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
30
POST 19/29 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY MOBILISATION, INSTITUTION BUILDING AND
POVERTY REDUCTION REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/52
Chief Directorate: Technology Research and Development
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Social Science / Economics /
Information Management and Technology / Statistics / Business Management
(NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at
middle/senior managerial level in economic or technology research. Job-
related knowledge: Research methodologies. Development Facilitation Act.
Technology transfer issues. Social development issues. Economic
development. Institutional development. Rural development issues. The
Comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP). The Integrated Rural
Development Sector Strategy (IRDSS). Job related skills: Computer skills.
Communication (verbal and written). Presentation. Facilitation. Negotiation.
People management. Financial management. Report writing. Analytical.
Monitoring and evaluation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Facilitate consultation with community stakeholders on initiatives and
programmes required in rural areas. Enlist the participation of public
representatives in rural anti-poverty activities. Define a referral dissemination
process for services departments. Facilitate monthly National Task Team on
anti-poverty activities. Provide recommendations on initiatives and
programmes required to contribute towards inclusive economy. Provide
recommendations on appropriate technologies, skills development, industrial
development and infrastructure development programmes required to
contribute towards inclusive economy. Manage the liaison, coordination and
control of initiatives and implementation programmes. Provide household
poverty and rural development profiling and produce management information
and reports. Provide household poverty and rural development profiling and
produce management information and reports. Facilitate community
development initiatives for improving the social-economic status of
underprivileged rural communities. Manage and lead community engagement
programmes and projects to support rural development anti-poverty initiatives.
Facilitate the stakeholder engagements between government, community
organisations, research institutions, development institutions and private
sector. Manage the liaison and coordination of stakeholder engagements.
Manage the household poverty database and information pertaining to rural
districts and provinces. Manage the information management system and its
further development or maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post52@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 19/30 : DIRECTOR: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/53
Directorate: Rural Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Built Environment
Professions (Engineering / Town Planning / Quantity Surveyor / Construction
Project Management and Architecture) (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate
(Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of
5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial level. Job-related
31
knowledge: Knowledge of Project management. Construction Industry
Development Board (CIDB) procurement policies. Monitoring and evaluation
methodologies, Information Communication and Technology (ICT)
Management, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Systems analysis and
development. Stakeholder management. Conflict resolution. Job-related skills:
Project planning and implementation. Coordination with other spheres of
government. Managing infrastructure projects. Policy, analysis, and
interpretation. Report writing. Service delivery innovation. Computer literacy.
Interpersonal relations. Project and programme management. Presentation
skills. Communication (verbal and written). A valid driver’s licence and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Deliver and coordinate provincial rural infrastructure development
programmes. Initiate, facilitate and implement social and economic
infrastructure development in rural areas in accordance with the
Comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP) and Integrated Rural
Development Sector Strategy (IRDSS). Facilitate the provision of infrastructure
and services to rural communities. Facilitate socio-economic infrastructure in
support of revitalisation of rural towns and villages through the provision of
basic services: rural roads and infrastructure that support poverty alleviation in
rural areas. Facilitate job creation and skills development through rural
infrastructure development initiatives with priority for youth, rural women and
people living with disabilities. Facilitate and coordinate social infrastructure for
rural communities in the province. Identify priority projects in line with the
departmental priorities and budget allocation. Manage stakeholder
consultation including provincial government, municipalities, traditional
councils, private sector, civil society and sector specific stakeholder
consultation. Monitor the appointment and project management of Professional
Service Providers (PSP’s) and contractors in compliance with Construction
Industry Development Board (CIDB) requirements. Manage and provide
strategic direction, project management and oversight for projects
implementation. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in line with relevant regulations. Facilitate the process of
resource planning and asset register management. Ensure that rural
infrastructure immovable assets are verified and accurately reported. Track,
monitor and report on assets of the Department aligned to the approved assets
management policy and system. Prepare, verify, quality assure and approve
payment certificates in line with approved project specifications and bill of
quantities. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in line with relevant regulations. Provide professional advisory
services with regards to infrastructure development in the Department. Provide
advisory services on province and local rural infrastructure in line with the
CRDP and Integrated Rural Development Sector Strategy Pillars. Provide
monthly, quarterly and annual reports on professional advisory services on
infrastructure projects. Support programmes and branches within the
Department that require built environment technical oversight and advice.
Intervene in projects through engagement with contractors, professional
services providers, local community leadership and project steering committee
stakeholders during projects oversight and monitoring. Provide required
regular reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post53@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 19/31 : DIRECTOR: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/54
Directorate: Rural Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Built Environment
Professions (Engineering / Town Planning / Quantity Surveyor / Construction
32
Project Management and Architecture) (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate
(Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of
5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial level. Job-related
knowledge: Knowledge of Project management. Construction Industry
Development Board (CIDB) procurement policies. Monitoring and evaluation
methodologies, Information Communication and Technology (ICT)
Management, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Systems analysis and
development. Stakeholder management. Conflict resolution. Job-related skills:
Project planning and implementation. Coordination with other spheres of
government. Managing infrastructure projects. Policy analysis and
interpretation. Report writing. Service delivery innovation. Computer literacy.
Interpersonal relations. Project and programme management. Presentation.
Communication (verbal and written). A valid driver’s licence and willingness to
travel.
DUTIES : Deliver and coordinate provincial rural infrastructure development
programmes. Initiate, facilitate and implement social and economic
infrastructure development in rural areas in accordance with the
Comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP) and Integrated Rural
Development Sector Strategy (IRDSS). Facilitate the provision of infrastructure
and services to rural communities. Facilitate socio-economic infrastructure in
support of revitalisation of rural towns and villages through the provision of
basic services: rural roads and infrastructure that support poverty alleviation in
rural areas. Facilitate job creation and skills development through rural
infrastructure development initiatives with priority for youth, rural women and
people living with disabilities. Facilitate and coordinate social infrastructure for
rural communities in the province. Identify priority projects in line with the
departmental priorities and budget allocation. Manage stakeholder
consultation including provincial government, municipalities, traditional
councils, private sector, civil society and sector specific stakeholder
consultation. Monitor the appointment and project management of Professional
Service Providers (PSP’s) and contractors in compliance with Construction
Industry Development Board (CIDB) requirements. Manage and provide
strategic direction, project management and oversight for projects
implementation. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in line with relevant regulations. Facilitate the process of
resource planning and asset register management. Ensure that rural
infrastructure immovable assets are verified and accurately reported. Track,
monitor and report on assets of the Department aligned to the approved assets
management policy and system. Prepare, verify, quality assure and approve
payment certificates in line with approved project specifications and bill of
quantities. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in line with relevant regulations. Provide professional advisory
services with regards to infrastructure development in the Department. Provide
advisory services on province and local rural infrastructure in line with the
CRDP and Integrated Rural Development Sector Strategy Pillars. Provide
monthly, quarterly and annual reports on professional advisory services on
infrastructure projects. Support programmes and branches within the
Department that require built environment technical oversight and advice.
Intervene in projects through engagement with contractors, professional
services providers, local community leadership and project steering committee
stakeholders during projects oversight and monitoring. Provide required
regular reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post54@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 19/32 : DIRECTOR: PROJECTS REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/55
Directorate: Project Management Office
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
33
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Statistics /
Mathematics / Economics / Data Science (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial level in statistics
or economics projects. Job-related knowledge: Knowledge of project
management, budgetary planning and expenditure reporting. Project initiation,
planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge and application of
project management software and tools. Risk management. Plan the life cycle
of the product and define the requirements. Assess the training needs and tools
for certain team members. Job-related skills: Project management (develop
project plans, coordinate projects, communicate change and progress,
complete projects on time and budget, manage project team activities).
Proficiency in statistical software, data management techniques, and
experience with big data in development contexts. Change management (able
to develop implementation plans, communicate change, monitor and evaluate
results). Analytical (able to collect and research data, synthesise complex
information, and design workflows and procedures). Planning and organising
(prioritise and plan work activities, set goals and objectives, schedule people
and their work, set realistic action plans). Communication (able to read, write
and interpret complex written information). Presentation (Ability to effectively
facilitate the discussion and manage audience). Proficiency in Microsoft Office
products (Word, Projects, Excel, PowerPoint). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage the economic research and statistical data projects across the Branch.
Coordinate and support to develop and produce economic and statistical data,
ensuring accurate data collection, analysis, and dissemination to support
strategic planning and policymaking on rural development matters. Provide
statistical expertise in rural development and rural economy. Ensure
compliance with project management framework and associated templates.
Maintain research and data statistical projects for the branch and provinces.
Ensure compliance with governance frameworks. Monitor the implementation
of project management principles. Provide strategic leadership and support to
develop best practices and tools for economic research and statistical data.
Develop, implement strategic and operational plans on economic research and
statistical data on rural economics aligning departmental strategic direction.
Oversee the entire statistical value chain, from data collection and procession
to analysis and the publication of statical releases. Develop system and
processes to improve information management in the Branch. Maintain and
populate data for a management dashboard and quality review research and
data postmortems reports. Ensure the adherence to the virtuous cycle
framework. Audit the quality of project management documentation and
process compliance (Public Finance Management Act). Review the integrity
and accuracy of the data supplied for the creation of dashboards. Investigate
innovative ways of data collection and information management. Collaborate
with other stakeholders to promote sound reporting relationships. Provide
support to develop full-scale project plans, project teams and associated
documents and reports. Monitor the allocation of resources. Provide assistance
in allocation of resources. Management of project teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post55@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/33 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY (ICT) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/50
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma (NQF level 6) / Degree qualification in
Information Technology / Computer Science or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 3 years' experience at junior management level in ICT environment
34
relating to Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network (WAN), ICT
servers and applications, Network and Hardware support. Job-related
knowledge: Government Systems Structure. A sound knowledge and
understanding of the South African ICT landscape and operations. Technical
expertise of ICT goods and services. ICT Acts and policies. Government
decision-making processes. Internal control and risk management. Project
management principles and tools. Understanding and management of
information and formal reporting systems. Understanding and management of
information and data security systems. Job-related skills: Planning and
organising. Interpersonal relations. Communication (verbal and written).
Analytical. Advanced computer literacy. Problem solving. Financial
management. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network (WAN) support.
Check connectivity on transversal and business application systems. Report
on the functionality of the systems. Monitor systems reconnections. Manage,
assess and resolve network infrastructure connectivity (Switches, Routers and
Access Points (AP's)). Receive new user creation forms from users and submit
for creation on departmental network. Provide feedback on new user creations.
Process and submit user network terminations as received from Human
Resource Management (HRM). Compile monthly Information Technology (IT)
reports. Manage and maintain ICT servers and applications. Monitor and
assess server environment and access control. Ensure server and connection
issues are assessed and resolved satisfactorily. Report and manage escalation
of server room issues for smooth resolutions. Facilitate, install and update of
ICT Application, e.g., Antivirus, etc. Scan and clean computers for viruses.
Scan and remove unwanted/unapproved applications. Setup, configure and
connection of IT applications. Manage and monitor Network and Hardware
support to business/users via ICT Call logging process. Attend and manage
user workstation ICT logged calls (allocation, resolution, resolution update) in
respect of hardware, software and network in context to the Service Level
Agreement (SLA) timelines. Generate call management reports. Review and
implement corrective actions on calls/processes. Participate in central ICT
projects of rolling out new initiatives in departmental offices across the
province. Conduct ICT business needs and equipment assessment report with
related recommendations on resolutions/specification. Supervise and manage.
Manage the day-to-day operations. Manage staff subordinates' work allocation
and leave. Ensure that calls are resolved and closed within the stipulated SLA
time frame. Manage National Office / Provincial ICT projects and provide
project status updates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Duiker Tel No: (018) 388 7108
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Coner
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post50@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 19/34 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: PLAS MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/49
Directorate: Pro-Active Land Acquisition Strategy (Plas) Trading Account
Financial Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Accounting / Financial Management /
Commerce or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 1 year experience
in financial management services. Job-related Knowledge: Understanding of
National Treasury Regulations. Understanding of Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA). Knowledge of A Complete and Comprehensive Program for
Accounting Control (ACCPAC), Safety Web Systems. Job related skills:
Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project).
Communication (verbal and written). Planning and organising. Time
management. Work under pressure and meet deadlines. Use a computer for
prolonged periods. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Effect payment to service providers. Ensure all payments are recorded
accurately on the incoming document register and supported by valid
supporting documents. Pay the correct supplier with the correct banking details
35
and amount within the 30 days from date of receipt of invoice. Ensure
compliance with the relevant PLAS payment checklist and process payments
within 5 days of receipt of complete payment parcel. Compile reports for the
section (age analysis, payment report and relevant registers). Compile
payment reports on a regular basis after payments have been processed.
Compile and submit payment reports accurately and completely to relevant
users. Compile accounts payable reconciliations on a monthly, quarterly and
yearly basis. Maintain complete and accurate vendor master file. Update
electronic vendor register on a regular basis. Perform and sign-off vendor
reconciliations on a weekly basis. File all vendor forms accurately. Ensure
effective document control and safeguarding of the financial records and
documents. Stamp and quality control all payment documents daily after
payments. Review and sign-off batch listing report for payments and journals
after the month-end closure. Ensure that all journals are captured on the
system and comply with internal control processes. File all payments and
journals sequentially in a lockable area.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Nyamandi Tel No: (012)312 9215
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post49@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
36
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov. za. Applications must
create a user profile by completing all required personal information and setting
up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Once registration is
complete and logged in to the system, you may browse all vacant positions.
Another option is to submit application by post or courier, quoting relevant
reference, addressed to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral and
Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively,
applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies
and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applications are strongly advised to complete and attach recent Z83
application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the
Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.dpsa.gov.za and detailed Curriculum Vitae when submitting applications
on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued
by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed
(In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application, but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/35 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: STRATEGY, MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
075
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Public Administration / Management/ Business
Management or Advanced Diploma in Monitoring and Evaluation (NQF7),
37
Certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service, Minimum of 5 years
experience at a senior managerial level in strategy planning and monitoring
and evaluation environment, Plus the following, Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of DMPR policies, functions projects etc, Policy development,
Strategic Planning, Government policies, Project/programs in DMPR, National
Economic and Development Strategy, National Economic and Development
Strategy, Monitoring and Evaluation Frameworks: Deep understanding of M&E
principles, logic models results-based management, and performance
indicators, Data management and Analysis, Advanced skills in quantitative and
qualitative methods, statistical tools, and data visualization. Policy and
Governance: Knowledge of public administration, government systems, and
policy implementation, Strategic planning: Ability to align M&E systems with
organizational goals and national development priorities. Financial
Management understanding of budgeting, resource allocation, and cost
effectiveness analysis, Skills: Leadership and Strategic capacity: Leading large
teams, setting vision, and driving organizational change. Programme and
Project management, Knowledge management, Problem solving and analysis;
Identifying gaps, risk, and opportunities in program implementation,
Communication strong written and verbal skills for reporting, stakeholder
engagement and advocacy, Service delivery innovation: Designing systems
that improve efficiency and impact, Change management: guiding
organizations through reforms and new performance systems, management
and organizational skills, Computer skills, Creativity and innovation,
Interpersonal skills, Analytical skills, Numerical, Organising and Co-ordination,
Facilitation and Implementation, Well-developed interpersonal relationships at
all levels, Financial management, Negotiation and consultation skills, Problem
solving and analysis, Strategic capability and leadership, Policy development
and implementation, Thinking Demand: Logical, Creative/Innovative thinker,
Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of the Department’s performance in line
with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and other relevant
legislation. Oversee the development of an integrated monitoring and
evaluation system and ensure that monitoring and evaluation are aligned with
the planning systems of the department. Lead the Department’s strategic and
operational planning to drive efficiency and achieve organizational objectives.
Management of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Mbatha Tel No: (012) 444 3187
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of Government, which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a
compulsory competency, technical and integrity assessment. The Candidate
will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Indian /Coloured or white male
including persons with disability.
POST 19/36 : MEDICAL INSPECTOR REF NO: 076
Re-advertisement, Candidates who applied previously need not to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate MBCHB Degree and a postgraduate qualification in
Occupational Medicine (NQF 08). Registered with the HPCSA with a valid
driver's license Plus minimum of 5 years senior/middle management level in
Occupational Health/ Medicine, Knowledge of: Knowledge of Mine Health and
Safety Act and other occupational health related prescripts, knowledge of the
mining sector in South Africa and internationally, Knowledge of policy
development techniques, Knowledge of policy analysis processes, Knowledge
of international legislation and local legislation and interface with mines’ health
regulations, Knowledge of research processes, knowledge of the Occupational
Health trends and challenges, Knowledge of the public service legislation
Skills: Management of people and finances, Strategic development and
implementation, Policy development, Networking skills, presentation and
report writing skills, Stakeholder management, Communication skills, Project
38
management skills, General management skills Thinking Demand: Rigorous
non-corruption thinking relating in the development and implementation of
plans and strategy, Managerial mindset relating to economics, Ability to source
or identify sources of credible information from local and international sources.
DUTIES : Resolve disputes on findings of medical unfitness of mine employees through
the appeals process as provided for in the MHS Act. Collect and analyse
statistics gathered from Medical Reports. Co-ordinate and ensure quality
assurance of the process to receive and archive mine closure employee
medical records. Participate /make inputs in mine health and safety accidents/
accident investigations (occupational medicine). Liaise/collaborate with
relevant compensation houses with aspects related to compensation. Provide
specialist advice/ information regarding HIV/AIDS/TB in the mining industry
and liaise with the Department of Health and other relevant organisations
dealing with TB/HIV. Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Mokoboto Tel No: (012) 444 3373
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of Government, which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a
compulsory competency, technical and integrity assessment. The Candidate
will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Indian /Coloured or white females
are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/37 : SENIOR INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 077
Re-advertisement, Candidates who applied previously need not to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : North-West Region, Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : A/An appropriate National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene/Environmental
Health (NQF Level 6) Plus Certificate in Mine Environmental Control plus a
valid driver’s licence, with a minimum of 3-5 years experience in occupational
hygiene, Knowledge of: Mine Health and Safety Act and Regulations & Legal.
Hazard Identification and Risk Management. Public Service Staff Code. DMPR
Policies. Skills: Ability to interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety Act; DMPR
Policy and staff codes. Management skills- Planning, Leading, Organising and
controlling. Report writing and formulation. Good interpersonal relations. Be
able to recommend mining occupational hygiene solutions Negotiation skill.
Language proficiency. Computer skills, Thinking Demand: Innovative thinker.
Analyse situations carefully. Make fair and reasonable decisions. Receptive to
suggestions and ideas. Be able to stay calm and collective during difficult
situations. Dynamic personality.
DUTIES : Coordinate and conduct underground, shaft, and surface audits and
inspections on matters relating to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors,
and other matters relating to occupational hygiene. Coordinate, conduct and
report on investigations into mine related accidents, contraventions and
complaints as well as the analysis of mine accidents and trends to determine
high risk mining operations and take appropriate action. Coordinate and serve
on any necessary board of examiners. Coordinate the investigation,
consultation and provision of input on mine closures, prospecting rights, mining
rights and permits, EMP's, and township development. Provide Managerial
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Melembe Tel No: (018) 487 4300
NOTE : Candidates will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessment. Indian
/Coloured or white female are encouraged to apply.
POST 19/38 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 078
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State Region, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Health (NQF6)
plus Certificate in Mine Environmental Control with minimum 3 years’
39
experience in Occupational Hygiene and a driver’s license, Knowledge of:
Mine Health and Safety Act Regulations and Legal Hazard identification and
risk management, Public Service Code, DMPR Policies, Skills: Ability to
interpret and apply Mine Health and Safety Act, DMPR Policy and staff codes,
management skills: Planning, Leading, Organising and controlling, report
writing and formulation, good interpersonal relations, Be able to recommend
mining occupational solutions, negotiation skills, language proficiency and
computer skills, Thinking demand: Innovative thinker, Analyse situations
carefully, make fair and reasonable.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection
on matter relating to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors and other
matter relating to mine occupational hygiene and take the necessary
enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report on mine related
accident, contraventions, and complaints as well as the analyses of mine
accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations and take
appropriate action. Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate,
consult, and provide input on mine closure, prospecting rights, mining rights,
permits, EMPs, and township development. Provide inputs to regional reports,
revision of mining regulations, guideline and standard and application of
exemptions, permissions and approvals related to occupational hygiene.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Nyaqcela Tel No: (057) 391 1373/71
NOTE : Candidates will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessment. Indian
/Coloured or white female are encouraged to apply.
POST 19/39 : INSPECTOR: MINE HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO: 079
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Region, Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/ National Diploma in Mining Engineering (NQF6) Mine Manager’s
Certificate of Competency, plus a drivers license with minimum 3 years
experience in mining, Knowledge of: Practical and theoretical knowledge of
mining, Legal knowledge, Departmental Directives, Public Service Act and
Regulations, Directives, Skills: Team work, Loyalty towards work, Innovative
thinker, Dedication, Receptive to suggestions and ideas, Quality control,
Compliance with rules and regulations, Discipline, work ethics, financial
control, Self-confidence and acceptability, Tactfulness, Organisational ability,
intolerance to waste-money, time, Thinking demand: Good interpersonal
relations, communication verbal and oral, organizational ability control,
interpretation and application of legal matters and policies, Team work,
Training, Negotiating, Adaptability, Conflict handling, Training Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspections
on matters relating to ground stability, support, explosives, blasting operations
and other matters relating to the Mine Safety and take the necessary
enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report on investigations
into mine related accidents, contraventions and complaints as well as the
analyse mine accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations
and take appropriate action. Serve on any necessary boards of examiners.
Investigate, consult and provide input on mine closure, prospecting right
EMP’s, and township development. Provide inputs to regional reports, revision
of mining regulations, guidelines and standard and applications of exemptions,
permissions and approvals related to mining.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Zondi Tel No: (012) 444 3668
NOTE : Candidates will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessment. Indian
/Coloured or white male are encouraged to apply.
40
ANNEXURE I
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT
The Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) is a Government Component within the Ministry for
Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. It is a Schedule 3 entity regulated in terms of the Public
Service Act, 1994, as amended. MISA’s primary function is to support municipalities in infrastructure
planning implementation, operations, and maintenance.
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/ ’’From 1 January 2021 should an application be received
using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered”,
a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone numbers and
email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified qualification, only shortlisted candidates will
submit proof of permanent residence. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for all posts will be subjected to (1)
a technical/practical exercise; (2) integrity assessment; (3) personnel suitability
checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial records, qualification;
and for SMS posts (4) verification a generic managerial competency
assessment and applicants could be required to provide consent for access to
their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment, as well as completing a financial interest declaration within one
month of appointment and annually thereafter. The department reserves the
right not to fill the post(s). One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
MISA invites suitable candidates to apply for the following positions, based in
MISA Head Office in Centurion, Pretoria, and other Provinces.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/40 : SPECIALIST ENGINEER: WATER AND SANITATION REF NO: MISA/SE-
SWM/19
SALARY : R1 928 700 - R2 757 078 per annum, (OSD), Total cost package
CENTRE : MISA Head Office - Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate master’s degree in civil engineering (M Eng / MSc Eng)
specializing in Water and Sanitation or relevant qualification at NQF level 9 as
recognised by SAQA with Ten (10) years post-qualification experience.
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA)
as a Professional Engineer. Process Competencies: Knowledge Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation
and Customer Focus, Communication. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity
and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management, Change Management, Programme, and Project Management.
Technical competencies: In depth knowledge and understanding of:
Engineering design and analysis knowledge, Engineering and professional
judgement, Contract Management, Knowledge of local socio-economic
infrastructure, Engineering, legal and operational compliance and engineering
operational communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: support on
specialized water and sanitation engineering services in accordance with
South African Policies, Act, Regulations, and Industry Guidelines following
MISA and Municipal Norms and Practices. Design new systems to solve
complex engineering challenges and improve efficiency and enhance safety.
Lead and coordinate advanced research, knowledge application and provide
specialized expect advice on water and sanitation engineering field. Develop
and review municipal sector master plans.
41
ENQUIRIES : Applications enquiries: Ms Zipho Thete & Nommiselo Mtini Tel No: (012) 848
5308/5401/ 5305 / To The T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa23@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 19/41 : CHIEF ENGINEER (CIVIL) REF NO: MISA/CE-KZN/20
SALARY : R1 317 108 - R2 484 204 per annum, (OSD), Total cost package
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal- Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Civil Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSc Eng) or equivalent
relevant qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA with six (6) years’ post-
qualification experience in Civil Engineering. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. Core
competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership. People management and
Empowerment. Programme and Project Management. Financial Management.
Change management. Process Competencies: Knowledge Management.
Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation
and Customer Focus. Communication skills. Technical competencies: In depth
knowledge and understanding of: Engineering design and analysis knowledge.
Engineering and professional judgement. Contract management. Knowledge
of local socio- economic infrastructure. Engineering, legal, and operational
compliance. Engineering operational communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide strategic
direction for Civil Engineering services in accordance with South African
Policies, Act, Regulations, and industry guidelines following MISA and
Municipal Norms and Practices. Manage the diagnostic process of the
identified municipalities (poor performing). Manage the Assessment of
municipal infrastructure planning, development, implementation, and operation
& Maintenance requirement of municipalities. Manage municipal support in
infrastructure life cycle covering Pre-feasibility and Feasibility studies, Design
and Development, Implementation and Operation and Maintenance including
procurement, programme/ project and contract management. Manage the
development, review and the implementation of municipal sector master plans.
ENQUIRIES : Applications enquiries: Ms Zipho Thete & Nommiselo Mtini Tel No: (012) 848
5308/5401/ 5305 / To The T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to
misa23@tttrecruitment.co.za
42
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand) / Mpumalanga Provincial Service Centre: Quoting
the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human
Resources, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107
or hand deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource
Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Eastern Cape/Qheberha: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address:
Private Bag X13012, Cambridge, 5206, East London. Applications can also be
hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor,
Vincent 5242, East London.
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
43
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/42 : DIRECTOR: COURT OPERATIONS REF NO: 2026/ 41/OCJ
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package),
consisting of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three-year Bachelor’s Degree in
Management or an Advanced Diploma in Management, Social Sciences,
Public Administration, Public Management, or a relevant equivalent
qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA. An LLB Degree will serve
as an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior
management level, of which at least three years must have been in the field of
Court management/administration. A valid driver’s license. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Pre-Entry Programme, as endorsed
by the National School of Government (NSG), will be required prior to the
appointment. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service prescripts and
frameworks, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act 1997, Treasury
Regulations, Service Delivery Innovation (SDI), relevant legislations, office
district administration, the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), the Batho
Pele Principles, financial, asset, and supply chain management, facilities and
security management and Court administration or case flow management.
Skills: Problem-solving and analysis, customer focus and responsiveness,
project management, leadership: interviewing; analytical skills, report writing,
presentation, planning and organizing, computer literacy (MS Office). Personal
attributes: Strategic and leadership capability, programme and project
management, financial management, change management, knowledge
management, service delivery innovation, problem-solving and analysis,
people management and empowerment, client orientation and customer focus,
honesty and integrity, communication. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Manage administrative support for courts in the Division of the High Court,
manage the provision of library and research services, manage Court facilities
and security services, and monitor risk for the High Court, manage case and
court records, manage quality assurance and auxiliary services, manage,
monitor and evaluate the functioning of courts in the Division of the High Court,
manage the utilisation of resources and manage the Directorates' enquiries,
providing advice and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr M Ndlokovane, Tel No: (010) 493 2565
HR Related enquiries: Mr SW Mekoa, Tel No: (010) 493 2578
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2026/41/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
44
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/43 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2026/43/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a four-year recognized
legal qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ legal research experience in
the relevant field. Superior court or litigation experience and a valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Electronic Information
Resources and online retrieval (Westlaw, LexisNexis, Jutastat SAFLLI and
Sabinet). Practice Manual of the Court, sound understanding of South African
law and judicial system, interpretation and application of the law, Batho Pele
Principles, communication skills (verbal and written), problem solving and
decision-making skills, excellent research and analytical skills, report writing
and editing skills, Analytical skills, Presentation skills, Planning and organizing
skills, computer literacy, communication and Information Management,
accuracy and attention to detail, diversity management, management of
interpersonal conflict, planning and organising, problem solving and decision
Making, project Management, ability to work under pressure and time
management skills.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
Judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the Judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
Judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, quality assure all references, full citation
of judgments and footnotes in all draft judgments and legal articles against the
original text to ensure correctness and accuracy, correct mistakes (typos) with
the help of track changes so that Judges can accept or decline any proposed
changes. Ensure that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case
law, practice directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of
knowledge of recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case
law, provide support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have
access to the latest legal information, keep up breast with recent developments
in relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P Boya-Nyhiba Tel No: (041) 502 6626
HR Related Enquiries Ms Z Sulo at (087) 086 6929
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/43/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 19/44 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: 2026/44/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Graphic Design/
Marketing/ Public Relations/ Photography or relevant qualification at NQF level
6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of one (1) year
experience in Marketing and Communication environment. A valid driver’s
45
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Graphic design, Adobe
Creative Suite (InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator) in the production of
communications products; Digital media; Photography. knowledge of
applicable communication policies, legislation, guidelines, standards,
procedures and best practices. good knowledge of departmental design,
frameworks, practices, and processes, knowledge of social media practice and
channels, knowledge of Public Service Acts, knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Basic Departmental policies and procedures and Batho Pele
Principles. computer literacy skills, organisational skills, problem solving skills,
time management skills, communication skills, presentation skills, report
writing skills, project Management skills and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Render graphic design, photographic and video services: Ensure the provision
of photographic services and drafting of articles, design promotional displays,
marketing brochures, packaging products, animations, layout method, logos
for products and services, take photos and videos for departmental events and
edit photos and videos for publication, update the departmental digital library.
Undertake social media functions: Implement social media strategy in align
with the departmental corporate Identity manual, update and monitor the
department social media platforms, and conduct research on current social
media standard trends and audience preferences. Provide marketing,
promotions and branding services: Design and implement brand awareness
campaigns, implement communication campaigns and products, design and
roll out above-the-line communication campaigns and products in collaboration
with relevant stakeholders, and provide public relations and media liaison
services. Render administrative services: Conduct proper filling system for all
the records, schedule and organise meetings.
ENQUIRIES ; Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Ntuli: Tel No: (010) 493 2520
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/44/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
46
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention Ms NP
Mudau.
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand
Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
CLOSING DATE : 26 June 2026 time at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /SMS-pre-entry
programme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
47
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a Single PDF document or one Attachment
per application to the email address designated on the specific position. Kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15MB.
It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is
successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following amendments for posts advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026, with a closing date of
05 June 2026: The post of Administrative Officer: Provisioning Ref No:
2026/209B for Cape Town Regional Office was erroneously advertised, the
position is therefore withdrawn. All positions advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 18 dated 29 May 2026, were published erroneously without
complete information and will therefore be withdrawn and re-advertised.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (LABOUR RELATIONS
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: 2026/233
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Human Resource Management/ Labour Relations or Labour Law. A valid
driver’s License. An extensive relevant working experience in Labour Relations
Management environment of which relevant years should be at the Junior
Management level (ASD equivalent Level). Knowledge of PERSAL will be an
added advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Constitution of the RSA,
Public Service Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Collective Agreements, and the
Public Finance Management, Labour Relations policies and processes,
directives and collective agreements. Knowledge of disciplinary, grievances,
and dispute processes in the Public Service. Skills: Basic numeracy;
interpersonal and diplomacy skills; general administration and organisational
skills; interpretation of policies and Legislations; ability to undertake basic
research/gather information; computer literacy; financial administration;
change/diversity management; objectivity; analytical thinking; problem-solving
skills; motivational skills; influencing skills; conflict management; presentation
skills; negotiation skills; communication, investigation and report writing
abilities. Personal Attributes: Innovative; Creative; Resourceful; Objectivity;
Ability to work independently and under stressful situations; Ability to
communicate at all levels; People orientated; Trustworthy; Assertive; Hard-
working; Self-motivated and must be prepared to travel; willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : The effective management of grievances, disputes and disciplinary processes.
Investigate grievances and misconduct cases, manage conflict in the
workplace, Represent the Department in grievances, disciplinary and dispute
matters/hearings which include litigation processes. Manage Labour Relations
Database. Manage resources within the Labour Relations Directorate, Conduct
and manage training workshops to educate employees on labour-related
matters. Implement, interpret and maintain policies. Advise employees and
managers on labour related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GP Makhubela Tel No: (012) 406 1189
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-46@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/46 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ARCHIVES & OFFICE SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: 2026/234
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Public Administration/ Information Science, Records Management; Relevant
years’ experience in records management at supervisory level. Knowledge:
National Archives and Records Service of South Africa (NARSSA); Promotion
to Access to Information Act (PAIA); Promotion of Personal Information Act
48
(POPI); Information Security Policy; Electronic Document Management
System; Electronic Communication and Transaction Act (no. 25 of 2002);
Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS); Public Service Regulations
(PSR); Public Service Act (PSA); Supply Chain Management Framework;
Public Finance Management Act; Code of Conduct for Supply Chain
Management Practitioners; LOGIS and Treasury Regulations. Skills: Project
management; Management skills; Problem identification and solving skills;
Organisational presentation skills; Numeracy; Relationship management;
Interpersonal and diplomacy skills; Decision making skills; Motivational skills;
Negotiation skills; Conflict management; Advanced verbal communication and
report writing skills; Computer literacy; Report Writing. Personal Attributes:
High ethical standards; Ability to conduct business with integrity; Ability to
promote mutual trust and respect; Innovative; Reliable; Flexible; Creative;
Solution orientated; Highly motivated and Ability to meet tight deadlines whilst
delivering excellent results. Other: Willing to adapt work schedule in
accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Implement effective records management systems-:Facilitate the
implementation of records management policies and guidelines; Advise and
coordinate the use of approved File Plan by departmental units; Reduce the
duplication of records to improve information sharing; Implement records
preservation strategies on crucial records; Monitor and evaluate records
management practices for compliance; Undertake regular reviews and
analysis of records management training needs; Raise awareness on records
management and information practices; Provide compliance report on records
management to the management. Supervise the Departmental registry
operations:-Facilitate access to information and records; Regulate the receipt
and flow of related documentation; Ensure that files are available on request;
Ensure the tracing of files; Coordinate the provision of printing works; Manage
the dispatching of outgoing mail; Monitor and track the utilisation of files from
the Registry; Control the maintenance and application of the filing system;
Conduct regular registry inspections/audit. Manage office support services:
Provide postal and courier services; Manage the provision of driving services
to transport passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents) for the
Department; Ensure effective schedules for drivers and messengers; Manage
the photocopying services; Manage the telephone accounts activities.
Implement systematic disposal of inactive records in accordance with
applicable prescripts-:Develop systematic disposal programme; Conduct
records audit to determine which records/ archives to be dispose; Compile the
application for disposal authority and submit to National Archives; Ensure
authorization of records to be disposed; Provide advice on the disposal of
records, particularly how long records should be kept; Manage the register of
documents that have been disposed. Supervise employees to ensure effective
service delivery -: Provide general supervision of employees; Allocate duties
and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees; Advise and lead
subordinates with regard to all aspects of the work; Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of subordinates; Ensure that all subordinates are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively; Develop, implement and monitor work systems (Rea-patala)
and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Letty Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406-1451
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-47@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/47 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT & PLANNING REF
NO: 2026/235
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management, Public Management, Public Administration or related
field (Management Sciences). Appropriate years of working experience in
Human Resource Recruitment. Knowledge: Standards, practices, processes
and procedures related to HR Recruitment. Structure and functioning of the
Department. Employment Equity Plan of the Department. Public Service Act
and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. Knowledge of PERSAL. Basic
Condition Act. Public Finance Management Act. Codes of Remuneration.
Conflict Management. Project management. Skills: Numeracy. Interpersonal
49
and diplomacy skills. Advisory skills. Supervisory skills. General administration
and organization skills. Computer utilization. Analytical thinking. Problem-
solving skills. Communication and report writing abilities. Personal Attributes:
Creative. Ability to work under stressful situations. Ability to communicate at all
levels. People Orientated, Punctuality, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-
motivated, Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Facilitate and implement advertising process. Receive and implement staff
requisitions forms and motivation for posts to be advertised. Facilitate the
drafting of advertisements. Implementation of recruitment and selection
processes. Keep records of application. Oversee sorting of received
applications. Ensure development of applicant’s profiles. Facilitate the
invitation of shortlisted applicants. Represent Human resources during
shortlisting and interviews of shortlisted applicants. Communicate with
successful applicants. Verify results, certificates and qualifications. Facilitate
the compilation of appointment letters. Facilitate personal planning
requirements. Compile, maintain and communicate the human resource plan.
Undertake the human resource assessments as prescribed. Promote the
achievement of employment equity and support the employment equity plan.
Keep abreast of changes in employment legislation and ensure that related HR
processes are aligned thereto. Supervise employees to ensure an effective
service delivery. General supervision of employees. Allocate duties and
perform quality control on the work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead
supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the of the required standard
efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NP Mudau Tel No: (012) 406 1552
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-48@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/48 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2026/236
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Management Sciences. Relevant years of experience in Labour Relations
Management environment and a valid Drivers’ license. Exposure in the Labour
Relations environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of
Labour Relations legislations, Public Service Act and Public Service
Regulations, Knowledge of disciplinary, grievances and dispute processes in
the Public Service, Knowledge of the LOGIS System in the Public Service.
Skills: Basic numeracy, interpersonal, facilitation, Coordination, and
communication (verbal and written) skills. Personal Attributes: resourceful,
creative, ability to communicate at all levels; people orientated; maintaining
Confidentiality, Integrity, honesty and trustworthy, self-motivated; ability to work
independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Administer the Labour Relations database by registering Labour Relations
cases, ensure accurate capturing of cases, proper maintenance of database
of cases, compile and submits reports, coordinate meetings for the Directorate
and records minutes, monitor implementation of decision taken. Provide
financial, procurement and logistics administration services for the Directorate,
make travel bookings for the Directorate and proper administration and
management of the resources for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Mahasha Tel No: (012) 406 1193
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-49@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/49 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (HRA) REF NO:
2026/237
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Human Resources Management or Public Administration. Appropriate
experience in Human Resources Management with emphasis on HR
Administration (Condition of Services and pensions). Knowledge of standards,
50
practices, processes and procedures. Good Knowledge of PERSAL, CORE,
Ability to apply and interpret Legislative frameworks such as PSA, PSR, EEA
and other regulatory prescripts for the public sector. Data analysis techniques,
ability to undertake basic research and gather information, Computer
utilization, good communication and report writing abilities, conflict
management and the ability to perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Administration of condition of services and benefits. Providing an advisory
function to DPWI staff on Human Resources policies. Processing of
appointments and service terminations. Administration of pension benefits.
Assist in the policy reviews related to condition of services. Ensure that relevant
stakeholders are involved on policy making processes. Assist in sourcing
information needed to report on Audit findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Booysen Tel No: (012) 406 1766
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-50@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/50 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRANSPORT (SCM: PROVISIONING AND
LOGISTICS) REF NO: 2026/238
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics/ Transport Management/ Public
Administration/ Public Management. Relevant years extensive working
experience in Transport Management. Sound knowledge and understanding of
pertinent policies related to procurement of goods and services, National
Treasury Regulation\, Supply Chain Management, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA) and Regulation, and Code of Conduct. Thorough knowledge and
understanding of Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA) and applicable financial
business systems (LOGIS and BAS or SAGE, REAPATALA and ARCHIBUS).
Excellent verbal and written communication skills, problem-solving, Analytical
skills and Computer literacy. An ability to handle confidential information. A valid
driver’s License. Knowledge of preparing financial statements.
Clientele/customer relations skills (including report writing), hard-working and
highly motivated. Ability to work efficiently under pressure; willing to adapt to
work schedule in accordance with line function requirements. Knowledge of
logistical processes and policies.
DUTIES : Ensuring day-to-day management and maintenance of fleet vehicles.
Verification and processing of invoices. Exercise control over the maintenance
and expenditure involved in the use of fleet vehicles. Processing Subsistence
and Travel claims. Management of traffic fines. Management of accidents and
damages. Assist in processing new applications for subsidised vehicles.
Ensure proper and effective records management system. Ensure compliance
with transport policies, procedures and processes. Assist with providing inputs
in preparation of interim and Annual Financial Statements. Provide guidance
and awareness to all users of fleet vehicles in relation to new policies,
prescripts, circular pertaining to Transport/Fleet/ and Travel related activities.
Perform other related tasks as per supervisor’s instruction and willingness to
adapt to work schedule in accordance with office requirements
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Molapo Tel No: (021) 402 2266
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-59@dpw.gov.za
POST 19/51 : DRIVER (PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS) REF NO: 2026/239
This is a re-advertisement, those who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
valid driver’s license as well as a Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of the procedures to
operate the motor vehicle. Knowledge of prescripts for the correct utilization of
motor vehicles. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle
is maintained properly. Knowledge of the procedures to perform messenger
functions and routine office support functions like registry services and making
of photocopies. Knowledge of the city district in which the functions will be
performed.
51
DUTIES : Perform general messenger and delivery services. Sort and arrange
correspondences in the registry. Collect submissions and other documents
from the assigned office. Render a driver service, including driving light and
medium motor vehicles to transport passengers, performing routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle. Sort mail, files, documents and parcels.
Render delivery services. Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed. Deliver mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees. Deliver
submissions between offices. Ensure that the recipients sign on the delivery
book/register. Record contents and physical addresses in the delivery
book/register. Perform general office assistant tasks. Make copies, fax and
shred documents. Render auxiliary administrative support as required. Support
the security profile of the office. Support registry-related activities. Support
operator-related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mgwadleka Tel No: (021) 402 203
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-60@dpw.gov.za
52
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Applications must
quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully completed and
signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission of copies of
qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant documents will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will be required to
submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when shortlisted.
Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection process.
Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their social media
accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. In the
pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made in line with the
DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement within
three months of appointment, as well as complete a financial interest
declaration form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The
Department reserves the right not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note:
a new application for employment (Z83) form is applicable from 01 January
2021. The new form can be downloaded online at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/52 : DIRECTOR: REGIONAL AND LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATION “REF NO: D: D - RLEDC”
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7 in
Economics / Finance / Development Studies or equivalent/related as
recognised by SAQA. Possess a minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in Regional and Local Economic Development
or Enterprise Development Environment. A compulsory pre-entry into the
Senior Management Service Certificate from the National School of
Government will be required before assumption of duty
(https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme). Display
competencies in Strategic Capability & Leadership, Financial Management,
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Collaborate with municipalities through their integrated Development plans to
develop and implement enterprise development programmes towards
improved Local Economic Development. Manage the provision of technical
support to provinces and municipalities during the implementation of economic
development strategies and coordinate the implementation of Small Business
Portfolio programmes within the districts/municipalities (DDM). Manage the
coordination of access to business support (financial and non-financial) for
MSMEs and Cooperatives across the government and report on
implementation across assigned areas. Manage and ensure effective and
efficient utilisation of the financial, human and physical resources of the
Directorate in line with applicable legislation. Communication (verbal, written
and formal presentations, etc) with stakeholders from diverse backgrounds and
deliver relevant information.
53
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097/0722426245/0721977511
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment8@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the above-
mentioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF NO:
D–RLEDC.”
54
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or Email Application:
Recruitment3926@tourism.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional on the signing of the employment contract,
performance agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and the applicant
must attain a security clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POST
POST 19/53 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: DEMAND AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DT39/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), excluding service benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No Experience required. Job Knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for sourcing quotations on CSD
and E- portal from service providers; Receiving and recording request for
55
quotations; Updating the request for quotation progress register; Printing
invitations and request from selected service providers by sending RFQ’s;
Receiving and updating quotations on the register; Evaluating quotations
received and compile valuation report; Submitting procurement documents for
review and verification; Recording and sending procurement documents for
approval to internal users/delegates for signatures; Following up with end users
on approval of procurement documents; Publishing results/awards of RFQ’s on
E-portal; Updating of the departmental contract register; Providing support and
guide end users on acquiring finance leases; Updating register for transversal
contracts and provide report; Updating register for contracts and provide report;
Updating finance lease register and provide report; Filing the SLAs of
contracts; Sending documents to supervisor for verification; Compiling monthly
reports on RFQ’s /RFPs timely; Updating the progress and status on
RFQ’s/RFQ’s; Maintaining filing of valid BEE certificate or sworn affidavit for
the awarded service providers; Attending to queries daily from internal and
external client either telephonically or by email; Providing feedback to the
internal client; Verifying compliance of the supplier on the procurement
documents received; Checking the correctness of CDS report; Checking
compliance on Tax status of suppliers and verified banking details; Checking
the validity of the quotation; Ensuring that the SBD1 and SBD4 are completed
and signed by the bidder; Checking the Directors of the service providers are
not employed by the state; Compiling comparative schedule and submit for
review.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. O Sekgweleo Tel No: (012) 444 6773
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
56
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 23 June 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following post was advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 18 dated 29 May 2026, Internal Auditor: Performance Audit
with Ref No: ODG - 045; the correct salary is R487 197 per annum (Level 09).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/54 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PRIMARY MINERALS PROCESSING AND
CONSTRUCTION REF NO: IC&G-144A
12-month contract post
Overview: To provide strategic leadership and management to the Primary
Minerals Processing and Construction Chief Directorate with the Industrial
Competitiveness & Growth Branch.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7, as recognised by SAQA in Science, Engineering,
Mineral Economics, Commerce, or a related field. 5 years’ relevant experience
at a senior managerial level in development and implementation of
industrial/economic policies in the Primary Minerals Processing and/or
Construction sectors. In-depth understanding of Industrial Policy, the Critical
Minerals Strategy, and the Beneficiation Strategy for the minerals industry, as
well as broader government policies. Proven experience in people
management, financial oversight, and strategic planning. Strong
communication and negotiation skills to represent the department effectively.
Understanding of PFMA, Public Service Act, and Regulations, Treasury
57
Regulations. Proficient in monitoring and evaluation, project management, and
research analysis for policy and programme development. Ability to build and
maintain strategic partnerships with national and international stakeholders,
including government, industry bodies, and research institutions.
DUTIES : Strategy and Planning: Manage strategic planning for the chief directorate.
Direct, manage, and transform the Chief Directorate into a highly effective
Primary Minerals Processing and Construction unit for inclusion in the National
Industrial Policy. Establish clear performance criteria and service standards for
staff. Design and implement strategies and action plans in the sectors
incorporated in the National Industrial Policy. Design and implement strategies
and action plans towards implementing the Critical Minerals Strategy of the
country towards contributing to the green economy. Coordination and
development of interventions: Provide guidance to develop and manage
systems, policies, and procedures to ensure effective and efficient growth of
the Primary Minerals Processing and Construction industry in South Africa.
Lead the coordination and development of interventions in line with priorities
Primary Minerals Processing and Construction industry. Identify and address
challenges faced by the Primary Minerals Processing and Construction Sector.
Conduct research and implement business processes. Monitoring and
Evaluation: Monitor the performance of the chief directorate against business
and project plans and introduce corrective measures where necessary. Ensure
compliance with the integrated performance reporting system, including high-
level dashboard reporting. Monitor and evaluate the strategy implemented in
the Primary Minerals Processing and Construction chief directorate.
Stakeholder Management: Establish and maintain strategic partnerships with
local and international institutions in the area of Primary minerals Processing
and Construction. Engage in ongoing interaction with key stakeholders.
Manage the relationships with key stakeholders to ensure implementation of
the programs. Ensure effective communication of the work of the chief
directorate to key stakeholders. Ensure that there is a coherent system. Chief
Directorate Management: Oversee the financial resources and assets of the
Chief Directorate. Oversee and manage human resources. Oversee the
strategic planning of the unit and execution of the operational and business
plan. Oversee the reporting against the Chief Director's business and
operational plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/55 : B-BBEE COMPLIANCE AND ADVOCACY OFFICER REF NO: SID&ET-119
(X3 POSTS)
This position is being re-advertised with the corrected minimum requirements
and duties reflected.
Overview: To facilitate and implement advocacy, education, awareness and
capacity building sessions on the services of the Commission and monitor
implementation.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: NQF Level 6 qualification in Public
Administration or Business Administration/ Social Science/ Economic Science/
Law/ Communication/ Education/ Public Relations. 3-year relevant Experience
in Compliance environment. Key Requirements: Stakeholder Management
experience. Working knowledge of the B-BBEE Act. Analytical, report writing
and presentation skills. Strong verbal and written communication skills. Good
time and conflict management abilities.
DUTIES : Receive, analyse compliance reports submitted in line with Section 13G
reporting requirements of the B-BBEE Act and provide feedback to entities:
Receive compliance reports from JSE listed companies, organs of state,
SETAs verify information and issue acknowledgement letter and provide state
of compliance to entities. Maintain records of all e-mail, posted and electronic
queries in relation to compliance report submissions in chronological order.
Assist to conduct research by collecting, analysing data from compliance
reports, and a draft sector report. Gather and analyse data from B-BBEE
Certificate Portal system. Facilitate and co-ordinate advocacy, and stakeholder
engagements: Inform and advise stakeholders with regards to B-BBEE
58
implementation, (i.e. meetings, etc.). Provide technical advice on interpretation
of B-BBEE legislation, B-BBEE deals, Codes etc. (i.e. telephone, emails, walk-
ins, etc.). Facilitate and co-ordinate capacity building and awareness sessions
to ensure compliance with the B-BBEE legislation: Implement identified
educational interventions (i.e. workshops, exhibitions, etc.) and produce
reports. Evaluate workshop survey/ feedback forms. Monitor B-BBEE
Implementation: Analyse facts regarding BBBEE stakeholders and provide
advice in terms of the provisions of the B-BBEE Act (i.e. conducting site visits,
and transaction registration and assessments). Assist with targeted
interventions for proper BBBEE implementation. Provide advisory opinion and
clarifications to clients. Perform Database Management function: Maintain
records of all e-mail, telephonic, posted and electronic queries (e.g. via
website) in chronological order. Prepare and submit monthly reports on the
number and nature of queries received, resolved and responses provided to
clients. Assist with organisational strategy coordination.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Female & Male, Indian Female & Male, White Male and persons with
disabilities.
POST 19/56 : B-BBEE INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICER REF NO:
SID&ET-117 (X2 POSTS)
This position is being re-advertised with the corrected, minimum requirements
and duties reflected.
Overview: To perform investigation and enforcement functions to ensure
compliance with B-BBEE Act and report on complaints trends.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: NQF Level 6 qualification in Public
Administration or Business Administration/ Economic Science/ Law. 3-years’
relevant experience in an investigation and enforcement environment. Key
Requirements: Knowledge of the Constitution, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
B-BBEE Act and compliance frameworks. Experience handling, screening and
analysing complaints within an enforcement or regulatory environment. Ability
to coordinate alternative dispute resolution processes and maintain associated
records. Strong written and verbal communication skills, including reporting.
Good administrative and organisational skills, including database tracking and
monitoring of turnaround times. Ability to work under pressure, travel when
required, and work flexible hours as needed. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and
complaints handling systems.
DUTIES : Complaints Handling: Handle complaints lodged with the Commission in line
with established procedures and processes. Develop and implement fast-track
procedures to attend to and resolve client complaints. Review complaints
handling systems and provide recommendations for efficiency improvement.
Conduct pro-active and reactive investigations and provide a report thereof.
Database and Tracking System: Maintain and update the database and
tracking system of complaints. Monitor compliance with turnaround times and
submit weekly reports on delays. Ensure complainants are informed of
reference numbers and progress. Screening and Analysis of Complaints:
Implement methodologies for complaint screening and analysis. Categorise
complaints and identify those for investigation or referral. Assess complaints
for referral to higher authorities or other institutions. Alternative Dispute
Resolution: Identify complaints suitable for alternative dispute resolution
(ADR). Coordinate and maintain consistency in ADR processes and
documentation. Record the number and nature of complaints resolved through
ADR. Reporting and Administrative Support: Produce progress reports on work
done as required. Perform administrative duties as allocated by the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Female & Male, Indian Female & Male, White Male and persons with
disabilities.
59
ANNEXURE O
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
60
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/57 : SENIOR DATA ANALYST: DATA GOVERNANCE REF NO: S071/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To develop and manage data governance frameworks, ensuring that
data quality, compliance, security, and effective data management practices
are implemented and adhered to.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required with a minimum of National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
Level 6) or Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent to NQF Level 7) in Computer
Science or Economics or Data Science or Information Management or related
qualification. A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an
Analyst level (Assistant Director) obtained in data governance environment.
Experience in the implementation of data governance frameworks, policies and
practices. Knowledge of data governance frameworks (e.g., DAMA-DMBOK),
data privacy regulations (e.g. POPIA), and data quality standards. Knowledge
and experience with data management tools and metadata management
platforms.
DUTIES : Data governance policy implementation: Translate high-level data governance
policies into actionable workflows and guidelines for implementation. Define
and track key data governance metrics to measure the effectiveness of data
governance initiatives. Monitor adherence to governance policies and address
non-compliance issues. Data and metadata management: Manage the
implementation and maintenance of metadata repositories and catalogues.
Ensure metadata is updated and accessible across the organization. Assist
with development of training materials and facilitating training across National
Treasury on how to use metadata tools effectively. Data quality management
and improvement: Collaborate with data stewards and analysts to identify and
resolve data quality issues. Support the establishment of data quality metrics,
standards, and processes to ensure data accuracy, completeness,
consistency, and reliability. Implement processes to automate data quality
checks and validation. Data compliance, security, and risk management:
Manage the day-to-day operation of governance tools and technologies to
ensure compliance. Support the identification of potential data risks and
develop strategies to mitigate them. Collaborate with the IT and cybersecurity
teams to ensure data security protocols are integrated into the data
governance framework. Stakeholder engagement: Engage internal and
external stakeholders on new developments pertaining to data governance,
compliance, security and risk management and their impact on the
management of data in the National Treasury. Represent National Treasury on
inter-governmental and other external forums and committees related to data
governance.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 19/58 : DATA ANALYST: ADMINISTRATIVE DATA AND RESEARCH REF NO:
S070/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To lead data driven policy, research, and data analytics leveraging
administrative data to support evidence-based decision- and policy- making.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF Level 7) in
Economics or Econometrics or Statistics. A minimum of 2 years’ experience
obtained in an economic, data analysis and research environment. Knowledge
of the latest trends in research methodologies and research tools. Experience
in the interpretation of research outcomes. Knowledge and experience of the
STATA and R software packages.
DUTIES : Policy Analysis: Support data-driven research projects in collaboration with
National Treasury divisions and other government departments. Produce
briefing notes and memos for the Minister, Deputy Minister and Director
General and Deputy Director Generals. Data management and analysis:
Perform initial quality checks on new administrative datasets to identify
anomalies. Assist with establishing data quality standards and protocols for
61
new administrative datasets. Research: Conduct policy-relevant research
using administrative data. Produce research notes, policy briefs, reports and
presentations based on research findings. Stakeholder engagement:
Represent National Treasury on inter-governmental and other external forums
and committees related to administrative data and research. Participate in
events such as workshops, seminars, and conferences to disseminate
research findings.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
62
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the above position, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za or Hand Deliver: Ground floor 56 Eloff Street,
Umnotho House, Johannesburg
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694 – Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026, 16h00. No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
New Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Applications with the Old Z83 form will not
be considered. A New Z83 form must be fully completed, duly signed and
initialled by the applicant. A recent, comprehensive CV, specifying all
qualifications and experience, with respective dates must accompany the
application form. Applications are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application. Communication regarding
certified documents will be limited only to the shortlisted candidates.
Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela certificate) is required before the appointment can be made.
Enrolment for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification. Note: It is the Department intention to promote equity through the
filling of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan
(Coloureds and Indians are encouraged apply). To facilitate this process
successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is required.
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). General information. The Department will not accept posted and
emailed applications. The Gauteng Department of Environment reserves the
right to fill or not fill the advertised posts. If you do not receive any response
from us within 3 months, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/59 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO: REFS/049855
Directorate: Corporate Management Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF Level 7) qualification in Legal/ Law (LLB) or
relevant qualifications as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in Legal Services environment.
Valid Driver’s license. Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate. Competencies: GPG
and GDARD policies and procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, Knowledge of
Contracts and Legal Prescripts, Management information knowledge, Project
management methodologies, Policy development, change management,
Financial Management, presentation Skills, Report Writing, Communication
and Negotiation Skills, Planning and Organising, Analytical skills and
Leadership Skills. Expert knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa and all relevant legislation, including the Public Service Act and
Public Service Regulations. In-depth knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Thorough knowledge of
the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), the Promotion of Access to
63
Information Act (PAIA), and the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA).
Expert knowledge of Agricultural legislation. Expert knowledge of the law of
contract, supply chain management processes, and litigation management.
Strong leadership, strategic planning, and organisational skills. Excellent report
writing, facilitation, and legal drafting skills. Service delivery innovation and
change management capability.
DUTIES : Provide strategic legal leadership and direction to the Directorate: Legal
Services, ensuring alignment with the Department's strategic objectives and
legislative mandates. Manage, develop, and mentor a multidisciplinary legal
team, ensuring optimal capacity utilisation and performance in line with the
Department's human resources policies. Develop, implement, and review the
legal services operational plan, service delivery model, and annual
performance targets. Report to the Head of Department and senior
management on all legal matters affecting the Department. Oversee and
ensure the effective management of the legal services budget, resources, and
assets in accordance with the PFMA and applicable prescripts. Legal Advisory
Services. Oversee and provide authoritative legal opinions and advice to the
Department, including the MEC, Head of Department, and senior management
on all matters pertaining to the Department's functions. Ensure the provision of
expert legal research and professional legal opinions on complex
constitutional, administrative, and environmental law matters. Provide strategic
legal guidance to management on compliance with applicable legislation,
regulations, and policies. Oversee the drafting, vetting, and review of all forms
of agreements, including contracts, memoranda of understanding, service level
agreements, and contractual documents arising during the Department's
procurement and operational processes. Ensure legal compliance in all supply
chain management processes, including participation in bid evaluation and
adjudication committees. Manage contractual disputes and provide strategic
guidance on remedies available to the Department. Oversee and manage all
litigation matters involving the Department, including coordination with the
State Attorney, Senior Counsel, and external legal representatives. Maintain
and ensure the accuracy of the Departmental litigation register and provide
GRAP 19 provisional assessments for financial reporting purposes. Ensure
timely and effective responses to all court processes, legal proceedings, and
litigation threats. Brief and debrief Senior Counsel and provide strategic
litigation guidance to management. Oversee the drafting, reviewing, and
amendment of legislation, regulations, and policies relevant to the
Department's mandate. Provide statutory support services in respect of PAJA,
PAIA, POPIA, and other applicable legislation. Ensure compliance with all
legislative and regulatory requirements applicable to the Department. Monitor
legislative developments and advise management on the implications for the
Department's operations. Facilitate and promote effective working
relationships with all internal and external stakeholders, including other
government departments, organs of state, entities, and the public. Represent
the Department in intergovernmental forums, committees, and consultative
processes on legal matters. Support governance structures including the
Business Continuity Management Committee and Risk Management
Committee on legal and compliance matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 19/60 : DIRECTOR: VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH AND EXPORT FACILITATION
REF NO: REFS/049856
Chief Directorate: Veterinary Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF Level 7) qualification in Bachelor of Veterinary
Science or Veterinary Medicine (BVSC/BVMCH) as recognised by SAQA.
Registration with South African Veterinary Council (SAVC). 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in veterinary services
environment. Valid Driver’s license. Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate.
Competencies: GPG and GDARD policies and procedures, relevant legislation
and Public Service Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers,
Knowledge of Contracts and Legal Prescripts, Management information
knowledge, Project management methodologies, Policy development, change
management, Financial Management, risk management, presentation Skills,
64
Report Writing, Communication and Negotiation Skills, Planning and
Organising, Analytical skills and Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : Provide veterinary public health and veterinary export facilitation services.
Promote safe production of meat and products of animal origin. Ensure the
monitoring and inspection of abattoirs/slaughter and export facilities. Ensure
community empowerment regarding veterinary public health issues [food
safety awareness programmes]. Monitor and provide inspection services for
the export and import of animals and products of animal origin. Manage the
facilitation of certification of animals and products of animal origin for export.
Manage the facilitation of registration of export and import facilities for animals
and products of animal origin. Monitor compliance in adaptation of import and
export standards for animals and products of animal origin. Ensure regulatory
compliance with international standards of meat produce. Ensure permits,
import/export certificate and licenses are obtained for movement of animals
across borders, free and contaminated zones. Ensure document checks and
assessment of conformity with the requirements of applicable technical
regulations and standards. Ensure physical inspections prior to shipment.
Manage the implementation of National, Provincial and Departmental
Frameworks. Manage the implementation of the veterinary norms and
standards. Monitor and evaluate compliance with the implemented trade
policies. Management and implementation of a quality management system.
Report any discrepancies regarding compliance. Manage human resources.
Manage financial resources. Manage assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo; at 072 904 1694
DEPARTMENT OF e-GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows, (email)
ChairsRecruit@gauteng.gov.za, (website) www.Jobs.gauteng.gov.za or be
delivered to: Imbumba House, 75 Fox Street, Marshalltown.
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026
NOTE : Applications should consist of a comprehensive CV (specifying all expertise,
qualifications, experience, and references with full contact details). The
Department of e-Government is committed to transformation and diversity.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The objective of
the Independent Risk Management Committee chairperson is to assist the
Accounting Officer in the effective execution of his responsibilities regarding
oversight on governance, risk management, internal control, legal and
internal/external auditing.
OTHER POST
POST 19/61 : CALL FOR NOMINATIONS/APPLICATIONS: INDEPENDENT
CHAIRPERSON – RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REF NO:
REFS/049790
SALARY : Compensation will be in accordance with rates as determined by National
Treasury
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of a Bachelor’s degree and a Post-Graduate Degree in Auditing,
Risk Management or Business Administration. The ideal candidate should
have 5 to 10 years management experience in Risk Management, Auditing,
Corporate Governance, Anti-Fraud and Corruption environments preferably in
the public service. The ideal candidate must have extensive knowledge and
experience in the relevant regulations and prescripts, including the Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, and ISO3100, King IV Report
on Corporate Governance, the COSO and Public Sector Risk Management
Framework. Previous experience of serving in the Risk Management
Committee and/or Audit Committee will be advantageous including having
knowledge Information Technology. Appointment will be made for a period of
twelve (12) months, subject to renewal at the discretion of the Head of
Department. The Chairperson may not serve more than two terms. The Risk
management Committee will have at least four meetings per annum.
DUTIES : Regulate and discharge all the responsibilities as contained in the Risk
Management Committee Charter. Provide oversight on the review and
monitoring of the implementation of the risk management framework, policy,
charter, and strategy within the Department. Provide guidance on the
65
integration of risk management into planning, monitoring, and reporting
process. Provide guidance on setting and reviewing the risk appetite, tolerance
statements and anti-fraud measures. Provide proper and timely reports to the
Head of Department on the state of risk management, together with aspects
requiring improvement accompanied by the committee’s recommendations to
address such issues. Perform any other duties of the Risk Management
Committee as specified in the Risk Management Committee Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Oscar Baloyi at 066 486 5508 or Ms Portia Makotwane at 066 297 1488
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at: https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/. Z83
and updated CV must be attached.
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The Completed and signed form should be
accompanied by a recently updated CV only specifying all experience
indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as indicating three reference
persons with the following information: name and contact number(s), email
address and an indication of the capacity in which the reference is known to
the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the interview date following communication from HR.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal
record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification, and employment
verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject to a positive
security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be subjected to a
security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo a Competency
Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted candidates, including
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise, and the other will be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise practical
exercises / tests for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment process
(candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the
suitability of candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the right to cancel
the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83
which is effective as of 01 January 2021. Pre-entry SMS certificate is
compulsory for SMS appointments. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate
course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049886
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the
applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA
in Financial Management/ Financial Accounting/ Management Accounting/
Economics/ Finance. 3-5 years’ experience at junior management level (ASD)
in budget management environment.
66
DUTIES : To manage the implementation of the provincial planning and budgeting
process by providing advice, guidance and training to client departments on
the provincial budget process, budget formats and budget reforms. To manage
the implementation of the provincial reporting process by providing advice,
guidance and training to client departments on the reporting requirements and
formats in line with applicable prescripts. To provide technical assistance to the
provincial treasury and client departments throughout the budgeting cycle,
which entails formulation of departments’ proposals of MTEF and adjustments
budgets; treasury’s review of budget proposals (budget database, and
Estimates of Provincial Revenue and Expenditure); evaluation of departments’
budget proposals in or for planning and budgeting structures such as Medium-
Term Expenditure Committee, MEC’s bilateral meetings, Extended Premier’s
Budget Committee, and National benchmarking meetings; and contribute to
the compilation of documentation required for the tabling of provincial
appropriation bills in provincial legislature. To provide guidance on the
implementation of the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations
and the Division of Revenue Act. To manage the component by performing
strategic and operational planning, managing stakeholder relationships,
overseeing the administrative support functions and performing people
management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 19/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049887
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in Financial Management/
Financial Accounting / Management Accounting / Economics / Finance. 3
years’ functional experience in budget management.
DUTIES : To provide support during the implementation of the provincial planning and
budgeting process by providing advice, guidance and training to client
departments on the provincial budget process, budget formats and budget
reforms. To support the implementation of the provincial reporting process by
providing advice, guidance and training to client departments on the reporting
requirements and formats in line with applicable prescripts. To support the
provision of technical assistance to the provincial treasury and client
departments throughout the budgeting cycle, which entails formulation of
departments’ proposals of MTEF and adjustments budgets; treasury’s review
of budget proposals (budget database, and Estimates of Provincial Revenue
and Expenditure); evaluation of departments’ budget proposals in or for
planning and budgeting structures such as Medium-Term Expenditure
Committee, MEC’s bilateral meetings, Extended Premier’s Budget Committee,
and National benchmarking meetings; and contribute to the compilation of
documentation required for tabling of provincial appropriation bills in provincial
legislature. To support the provision of guidance on the implementation of the
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and the Division of
Revenue Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 19/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING REF NO:
REFS/049888
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 majoring in Accounting. 3 - 5
years’ experience at junior level in an Accounting/Auditing environment.
DUTIES : To assist with the preparation of the Consolidation of Gauteng Provincial
Government (GPG) financial statements; Monitor and review department’s
monthly Section 40 PFMA disclosure reports. Review of the Interim and Annual
Financial Statements of GPG departments and entities in line with the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and the applicable GRAP and Modified Cash Standards.
Track the implementation of the GPG departments and entities AGSA audit
action plans. Management of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
67
POST 19/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/049889 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA
in Risk Management/Accounting/Finance/Auditing. 3-5 years of experience in
the Risk Management/Risk-based Auditing field as an administrator. A driver’s
licence is a must. Membership of the Institute of Risk Management of South
Africa (IRMSA) added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in the development/ review of the Risk Management
Framework, guidelines and operational standards/procedures. Provide support
on the rollout of Combined Assurance. Conduct research and benchmark best
practices. Monitor& assess risk management implementation in departments
& municipalities. Compile risk maturity assessment & risk management
implementation oversight reports for presentation at risk committees/any other
relevant structures. Support the development/review of risk governance
documents of departments & municipalities and support their implementation.
Facilitate/co-facilitate risk assessments. Support the development of
departmental, municipal & provincial risk profiles. Analyse internal & external
environment for emerging risks & conduct trend analysis. Participate in
capacity building initiatives of departments & municipalities. Provide hands-on
support, as and when required. Ensure submission of accurate and timeous
management reports. Perform any other delegated responsibilities that support
the effective functioning of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
POST 19/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING AUDITING AND
REPORTING REF NO: REFS/049890
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Financial Management/ Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing/ Cost
Management or Cost Accounting. Membership of the Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (IIA SA). 3 – 5 years of working experience in Financial
Management/ Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing/ Cost Management or
Cost Accounting. At least 2 years working experience in local government or
Provincial Treasuries in a similar role. Value. Accountability, assertiveness,
willingness, confidentiality, fairness, trustworthy, discretion and honesty.
DUTIES : Provision of required inputs to departmental, branch or chief directorate reports
or processes. (BMT, ESMT, EMT, GPTMFMA Coordinators and NT MFMA Joint
or PTs Forum meetings, CoGTA, OPCA PCC, etc. Provide inputs into the
development and review of Internal Audit and Audit Committee framework.
Analyse the substantive effects of internal audit on business and advice on
remedial action for implementation. Conduct of a needs analysis to roll out
support to municipalities. Monitoring of related audit findings and the
implementation of remedial action plans and prepare report. Assist the deputy
director with financial management, including contributions to the unit budget
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026
NOTE : To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required. The Department also urges all designated groups
applying for positions to please to indicate their race and disability for purposes
of Employment Equity Office for attention Ms M Mzamela. All applicants are
also encouraged to number the pages of their CV and the attached certified
documents. Note: Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. If you
68
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency assessment
(where applicable). The department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the
vacant post. The successful candidates will enter into an employment contract
with the GDSD that will be reviewed based on performance expiration. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 19/67 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: SOCIAL WELFARE SERVICES REF NO:
REFS/049763
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package, the package can,
with applicable rules, be structured according to the individual's needs.)
CENTRE : Johannesburg Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification and a post graduate qualification (NQF level 8)
in Social work/Community Development. Extensive proven social welfare and
community development managerial experience. A minimum of 8 years of
experience at a senior managerial level in Social Welfare Services
environment. Code B driver’s licence. Nyukela SMS Certificate for entry into
SMS (Senior Management Service) from the National School of Government
prior to appointment. Knowledge of the Public Management framework, public
policy development, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and improvement
practices and public 40 financial management. Proven strategic leadership and
business partnering, general Management, problem-solving and decision-
making, communication, analytical and advanced programme/project/resource
management skills. Knowledge of the Department’s constitutional mandate
and it’s relationship with National and other stakeholders. Proven track record
of leading change management initiatives and applying innovative thinking. In-
depth knowledge of social welfare and community development models,
systems and structures applicable in the sector. Sound interpersonal relations.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management and provision of developmental social
services and statutory social services. Manage sustainable social development
and research programmes. Oversee the management of regional offices and
institutions. Promote the development, implementation, monitoring, evaluation,
improvement and marketing of need-based, sustainable social development
programmes and oversee the funding of such programmes in accordance with
all relevant legislation. Consult role-players and stakeholders likely to be
affected by strategic initiatives, resource management and service delivery
decisions taken by the Department. Build sound and sustainable relationships/
partnerships will all business sectors towards the upliftment of communities,
especially those marginalised in the past. Oversee the collation and analysis
of data on interventions, and preparation for reporting purposes. Responsible
for Branch resource management and delivery against Strategic and Annual
Performance Plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Skosana Tel No:( 011) 227 0069
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Skosana Tel No: (011) 227 0069
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures.
POST 19/68 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: REFS/049765
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package) and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the
applicable SMS guidelines per annum.
CENTRE : Head Office (Office of the Chief Financial Officer)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 7 in financial management/ internal
Audit/Accounting management/ Supply Chain Management. Minimum 5 years
69
of experience at a senior managerial level in Financial Management field.
Nyukela SMS certificate for entry into Senior Management Service from the
National School of Government prior to appointment. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge and understanding of legislative and policy framework governing
financial accounting, Management Accounting, Supply Chain Management
and Risk Management. Knowledge and understanding of financial accounting,
Management Accounting, Supply Chain Management and Risk Management
processes, systems and procedures in the public service. Knowledge and
understanding of Departmental policy mandates, priorities, objectives and
Service Delivery Model and integrity. Skills And Competencies: Strategic
management, project and programme management, financial management,
service delivery innovation and strategic reporting skills. Strategic capability
and leadership, programme and project management, financial management,
change management, service delivery innovation, problem solving and
analysis, communication, honesty and integrity. The ability to meet strict
deadlines and work under pressure. Knowledge of the Department's
constitutional mandate and its relationship with National and other
stakeholders.
DUTIES : Oversee the establishment and implementation of sound, effective and efficient
tender, contract, procurement and asset management systems and processes
in line with PFMA: treasury regulations and other regulatory other frameworks.
Oversee the establishment and implementation of sound, effective and efficient
management accounting systems in line with PFMA, treasury regulations and
other regulatory frameworks. Oversee the management of cash flows and
budget forecasting based on Departmental programmes: goals and objectives.
Oversee the preparation, analysis and submission of Departmental monthly
and quarterly expenditure reports and annual financial statements. Manage
accurate compilation of departmental annual budget, MTEF budget and
maintaining effective standard chart of accounts for the department. Manage
records of the financial affairs of the department are kept in accordance with
any prescribed norms and standards. Oversee financial reporting and revenue
management. Audit current systems, policies, procedures, gaps to evaluate
appropriateness and impact on delivery of GSDS’s strategic objectives as well
as compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moloi Tel No: (011) 227 0062
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 19/69 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049744
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable SMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Head Office (Human Resource Management)
REQUIREMENTS : A degree/ (NQF Level 7) in Human Resource Management. A minimum of 5
years’ relevant experience at middle/senior managerial level. Excellent
knowledge of the Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR),
Employment Equity Act (EEA), white paper on Transformation and Batho Pele,
Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Human Resource Systems. Nyukela
SMS Certificate for entry into SMS (Senior Management Service) from the
National School of Government prior to appointment. Code B driver’s licence.
Human Resource Management in the Public Service will be an added
advantage. Excellent communication (verbal and written), analytical and
problem solving, sound project and financial management, strategic capability
and leadership, excellent planning and organising, good negotiation and
conflict management, excellent managerial and change management and
computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Manage the effective implementation of Human Resource Management,
including Human Resource Development, Human Resource Administration,
Labour Relations, Organisational Development and Recruitment. Oversee the
management and promotion of fair and sound Labour Relations. Strategically
manage special programmes, including Employee Health and Wellness
(EHWP). Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment, Assets) in the
Directorate. Oversee and provide support to the designated operational and
delegated management responsibilities of the HRM Directorate. Ensure the
70
realisation of performance outcomes and MPAT. Optimise the achievement of
service delivery and unqualified clean audit opinion. Serve as member of the
Senior Management Team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mbense Tel No: (011) 355 7703
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 19/70 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: REFS/049745
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable MMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Legal Studies, plus minimum
of 5 years’ relevant experience at middle/senior managerial level in Legal
Services environment in the Public Service. Five (5) years post admission
experience as an Advocate or Attorney with the right to appear in the High
Court. A valid driver’s license. Nyukela SMS Certificate for entry into SMS
(Senior Management Service) from the National School of Government prior
to appointment prior to appointment. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative and Policy framework governing Legal
Services processes, systems, and procedures in the Public Service,
Knowledge and understanding of Department’s legal requirements, obligations
and commitments, Knowledge and understanding of Departmental policy
mandates, priorities, objectives and Service Delivery Model. Skills and
Competencies: Strategic Management skills, Service Delivery Innovation skills
strategic reporting skills, Performance and Self Driven, Facilitation,
Leadership, Problem Solving, People management and Empowerment skills.
DUTIES : Provision of strategic leadership in the management of Legal Services,
Provision of legal advice on the Departmental Contracts, Provision of legal
representation of the department in Litigation cases. Manage litigation and
proactive legal services, Coordinate and manage litigation, Manage
consultations and court documents, Liaise with state attorney and other organs
of state in continuation of litigation: Provide contract management services,
Negotiate and draft legally binding contracts for and on behalf of the
Department, Provide legal advice on contracts. Provide legal advisory services,
conduct research and consult with various stakeholders on the legal advice:
Provide legislative drafting and review and compliance management, Conduct
legislative audits and legislative awareness, Vet and draft policies relevant to
the Department. Management of the Directorate, Manage Directorate’s budget
and expenditure, Manage the Directorate’s performance, manage staff
performance and development, leave and discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Maabane Tel No: (011) 227 0060
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 19/71 : DIRECTOR: NPO PARTNERSHIP AND FINANCING REF NO: REFS/049764
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable SMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Financial Management, Cost
Accounting and Auditing. A minimum 5 years of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level, in the financial management environment. Nyukela SMS
Certificate for entry into SMS (Senior Management Service) from the National
School of Government prior to appointment. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge
and understanding of legislatives, Policy and Institutional frameworks
governing NPO and Community Partnership and Development Programmes in
the Public Service. Knowledge of the Department's Strategic priorities and
Service Delivery model. A valid driver's license. Excellent Communication
(verbal and written), Analytical and Problem solving, analysis, Financial
Management, Strategic capability and leadership, Monitoring and Evaluation
skills.
71
DUTIES : Management of NPO budget approval and payment system process for service
providers as part of Departmental Annual Performance Plan. Provide
institutional capacity building on all compliance related matters VI. Establish
and maintain a sound internal control system on SAP System in line with
relevant legislation such as PFMA, and Treasury Regulations. Manage the
compilation of provincial proposed budget for Management Authority. Manage
and monitor Expenditure and Financial analysis and consolidate monthly
reports for subsequent subsidy payments ll. Conduct risk assessment through
analysis of audited financial statement of all funded NGOs. Conduct risk
assessment through analysis of audited financial statement of all funded
NGOs. Manage policy formulation and provide support to stakeholders.
Develop relevant and cost-efficient costing models for all funded programmes
delivered by NPOs. Manage and monitor the compliance of funded NPO in
Social Service Sector and participate in the corridors Task Teams.
Management of Directorate's budget and expenditure, performance reporting
development, leave and discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Motloutsi Tel No: (011) 355 7700
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 19/72 : DIRECTOR-SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049766
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable SMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must have an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Supply
Chain Management/Logistics/Purchasing Administration/ Management. A valid
Code B driver’s licence. A minimum 5 years of experience at middle/senior
managerial level within the Supply Chain Environment. Nyukela SMS
Certificate for entry into SMS (Senior Management Service) from the National
School of Government prior to appointment. Knowledge of the Constitution of
the RSA, Department’s Constitutional mandate, experience and working
knowledge of The Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Act
and Regulations, and other SCM related legislative frameworks. Knowledge,
skills and experience in Demand Management and Customer Care, tender and
contract management, logistics and disposal services, asset management, risk
management related to SCM functions and financial management. Skills And
Competency: Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework
governing the Public Service, Knowledge and understanding of PFMA,
Knowledge of the Department’s Constitutional mandate, financial management
and Procedures, policies, procedures and legislations, Problem Solving and
Analysis. Budgeting Process, Business Insight, Analytic Skills, Communication
skills, Project Management Skills, Planning and Co-Ordinating, Facilitation
skills, Conflict management skills and Staff Development.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of tender and contract management, manage SCM
demand planning services, Plan and coordinate forecasted demand plans of
all business units, Perform resources planning, supply sourcing, negotiation,
order placement, Manage the provision of Procurement, Link the departmental
procurement needs to the strategic plan, manage the establishment and
maintenance of the supplier database, manage the distribution of goods and
services ,Monitor and ensure that vendors deliver in accordance with orders,
Guide Markert analysis and research to establish availability of suppliers for
specific commodities in the market and distribution of services. Manage the
provision of Asset Management Services, manage loss control services,
manage the issuing of Purchase Orders, manage the maintenance of assets
register, manage the compilation and submission of asset, disposal and loss
control reports to relevant approval authority for actioning. Manage the
development and review of SCM Policies, develop and implement SCM
monitoring and evaluation systems, ensure compliance to SCM processes and
regulations, develop SMME Supplier Development Programme and monitor,
manage and report on SMME supplier performance. Manage Resources,
perform strategic and operational planning, oversee the administrative support
functions, perform people, financial and asset management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Skosana Tel No: (011) 227 0069
72
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Skosana Tel No: (011) 227 0069
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures.
73
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 23 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR Sections as well as
considering the cost for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are advertised within the
Department professional registration will be required from various statutory
council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be considered.
Applicants must ensure that they fully complete and sign form Z83, even if they
are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the
Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. N.B.
Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid disappointments.
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/73 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/932
SALARY : R907 617 - R995 592 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Master’s Degree in Clinical Psychology.
Current registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HCPSA) as a Clinical Psychologist (2026). Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as Clinical Psychologist (Independent Practice). Minimum of
one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized Foreign
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist for foreign qualified
employees. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Sound clinical knowledge
regarding Clinical Psychology diagnostic assessment and treatment
procedures. Knowledge and the ability to administer and interpret
psychological tests. Ability to function in a multi-disciplinary team. Excellent
Communication and interpersonal relationship skills. Quality Assurance and
Improvement. Problem solving skills. Competency in psychological
assessment and report writing within the context of forensic Mental HealthCare
services. Ability to develop and implement psychological rehabilitation
74
programmes. Teaching and training ability. Administration skills. Knowledge of
all applicable legislation pertaining to Mental Health Care and forensic Mental
Health. Psychotherapeutic and clinical knowledge in patient assessment,
diagnosis and treatment across the lifespan. Ethical and legislative framework
of practice. Departmental guidelines and policies. Evidence based
psychological practice. Understanding of broader community, cultural,
contextual and socio-economic factors which impact mental health. Ability to
work within a multidisciplinary team. Good organization and time management
skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal relations. Sensitivity to
gender, racial, ethnic, sexuality and disability issues. Computer Literacy in
Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, etc. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure the rendering of clinical psychologist services to hospital facilities.
Ensure the development of training material and provide training in mental
health to the wider MDT. Part of a multidisciplinary team. Outreach to regional
and district hospitals and PHC Participation in the development of
psychological services in the region. Participation in academic activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/74 : MEDICAL PHYSICIST GRADE 1: ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/933
SALARY : R844 128 – R935 049 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Physicist. Current
registration with a Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Physicist 2026). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Physicist. Inherent requirements of the Job: Willingness
to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Skills pertaining to the
scope of the profession of Medical Physicist. Manage the medical physics
service for the nuclear medicine division. Must be able to work independently
and have the skills to complete projects on time. Good communication and
interpersonal relationship skills. Through knowledge of nuclear medicine,
physics, and techniques, including internal dosimetry. Understand the physics
of nuclear medicine equipment. Knowledge of computers and software used in
nuclear medicine. Knowledge of the statutory regulations regarding the
medical use of ionizing radiation, as well as radionuclides. Thorough
understanding of physics concepts and their link to medical applications.
DUTIES : Responsibility for the management of the dosimetry, quality assurance and
radiation protection functions of Medical Physics in the Division of Nuclear
Medicine, including regulatory compliance. Active participation in the routine
execution of clinically related medical physics tasks also supplies physics
support in the Division of Radiology. Assistance with equipment tender
preparation, evaluation and acceptance. Understand and use software
packages for gamma cameras and PET reconstruction, responsible for QA on
the divisional network between imaging systems and participation in the
management team of the Division of Nuclear Medicine. Assistance with
lecturing in the training programme of the Medical Physics and Nuclear
Medicine Divisions. Active participation and assistance with the management
of the research and development programme of the Medical Physics Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/75 : MMAMOGRAPHY RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1: RADIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/934
SALARY : R510 906 – R581 892 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
75
either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology Radiography,
Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography. Current registration
with the HPCSA in either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology
Radiography, Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2026).
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate experience after registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills): Ability to work independently
and as part of a team. Ability to organize and complete examinations in a timely
manner. Demonstrate an understanding of human anatomy, physiology,
pathology and medical terminology. Ability to perform high volume of
mammography examinations to a high standard. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant public service regulations, Acts and
policies.
DUTIES : Perform screening or diagnostic Mammography examinations. Prepare for and
assist the Radiologist in the completion in the invasive mammography
examinations including breast biopsies. Ensure good patient care. Educate the
patient regarding the mammography examination. Produce high-quality
mammography images for the radiologist to evaluate. Maintain a high degree
of accuracy in mammography positioning and exposure technique. Manage
quality assurance related to Mammography. Minimize radiation to patient and
staff by practicing correct radiation protection techniques. Compile statistics.
Complete appropriate documentation. Follow infection control and safety
guidelines. Ensure proper care in the use of x-ray equipment and supplies.
Perform general radiographic examinations, CT scan examinations,
Fluoroscopy examinations, Theatre and ward radiographic examinations.
Render after-hours radiology services. Participate in continuous professional
development programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/76 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER (SONOGRAPHER) GRADE 1:
RADIOLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/937 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R510 906 – R581 892 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Nkangala District: Witbank Hospital (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology Radiography,
Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography. Current registration
with the HPCSA in either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology
Radiography, Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2026).
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate experience after registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills): Ability to work independently
and as part of a team. Ability to organize and complete examinations in a timely
manner. Demonstrate an understanding of human anatomy, physiology,
pathology and medical terminology. Ability to perform high volume of
ultrasound examinations to a high standard. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant public service regulations, Acts and
policies.
DUTIES : Perform diagnostic ultrasound images examinations. Write reports in
accordance with prescribe protocols. Must be able to work independently
without supervision. Adhere and ensure compliance with Radiation Control
Board and HPCSA, Legislation Equipment Maintenance and do monthly stats
in ultrasound department. Partake and facilitate staff and student development.
Participate in CPD as required by HPCSA. High level of responsibility.
Complete appropriate documentation. Follow infection control and safety
guidelines. Ensure proper care in the use of x-ray equipment and supplies.
Perform general radiographic examinations, CT scan examinations,
Fluoroscopy examinations, and Theatre and ward radiographic examinations.
Render after-hours radiology services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
76
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/77 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: NEPHROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/939 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist (2026). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years
Dialysis experience will be an added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified
employees: none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge and insight related to
dialysis machines and reverse osmosis/water purification systems. Knowledge
of infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Basic computer literacy.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to nephrology. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. Effective 98
communication. Good organizational skill and ability to function under
pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Deliver safe, comprehensive and quality patient care, with specific reference
to renal disease treatment and education according to the Scope of Practice
and Renal Care policies and standard procedures. Clinical record keeping,
procedures and protocols. Dialysis machine and water purification system
operation. Identify, prevent and manage risks to ensure patient safety.
Facilitate a positive patient experience by creating a conducive environment.
Develop/modify an integrated, comprehensive patient-based care plan. Patient
assessment and interpretation of blood results.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/78 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: CARDIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/940
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist (2026). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years
Cardiac Clinical Technologist experience will be an added advantage. Grade
1: SA qualified employees: none experience after registration with the HPCSA
in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who
performed Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees:
one (1) year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the
relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of both paediatric and adult diagnostic
and interventional procedures. Interest in adult and paediatric
echocardiography is essential and previous experience an advantage. Good
communication skills both written and verbal. Previous experience in adult and
paediatric echocardiography is an advantage.
DUTIES : The candidate must have background in performing echocardiography and will
receive instruction as required for adult and paediatric echocardiography. This
will be the primary focus of the post. Provide optimal patient care. Participate
in all departmental activities as required for cardiac patients. Monitor and
maintain equipment.
77
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/79 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: RADIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/941
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist (2026). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years
Dialysis experience will be an added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified
employees: none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge and insight related to
dialysis machines and reverse osmosis/water purification systems. Knowledge
of infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Basic computer literacy.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to nephrology. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. Effective 98
communication. Good organizational skill and ability to function under
pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Deliver safe, comprehensive and quality patient care, with specific reference
to renal disease treatment and education according to the Scope of Practice
and Radiology Care policies and standard procedures. Clinical record keeping,
procedures and protocols. Dialysis machine and water purification system
operation. Identify, prevent and manage risks to ensure patient safety.
Facilitate a positive patient experience by creating a conducive environment.
Develop/modify an integrated, comprehensive patient-based care plan. Patient
assessment and interpretation of blood results.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/80 : ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAM (EEG) TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1:
NEUROLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/943 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Neurophysiology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Neurophysiology
(2026). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years Dialysis
experience will be an added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified employees:
none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service
as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Knowledge and insight related to dialysis machines and reverse
osmosis/water purification system. Knowledge of infection prevention and
control (IPC) protocols. Basic computer literacy. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policy related to nephrology. Ability to function independently as
well as part of a multidisciplinary team. Effective 98 communication. Good
organizational skill and ability to function under pressure. Must be prepared to
work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Deliver safe, comprehensive and quality patient care, with specific reference
to neurological disease treatment and education according to the Scope of
78
Practice and Neurology Care policies and standard procedures. Clinical record
keeping, procedures and protocols. Dialysis machine and water purification
system operation. Identify, prevent and manage risks to ensure patient safety.
Facilitate a positive patient experience by creating a conducive environment.
Develop/modify an integrated, comprehensive patient-based care plan. Patient
assessment and interpretation of blood results.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/81 : DENTAL LABORATORY TECHNICIAN GRADE 1: DENTISTRY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/949 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Dental Technician Council (SADTC) as
Dental Technician. Current registration with the HPCSA as Dental Technician
(2026). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none experience after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service as required in SA. Foreign
qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge
and insight related to dialysis machines and reverse osmosis/water purification
systems. Knowledge of infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Basic
computer literacy. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to
nephrology. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multidisciplinary team. Effective 98 communication. Good organizational skill
and ability to function under pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts,
weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Fabrication: Create custom dental devices using materials like ceramics,
metals, and acrylics to restore both function and aesthetics. Collaboration:
Follow precise written instructions and impressions (molds) or digital scans
provided by the clinician. Finishing Touches: Shape, polish, and colour-match
appliances to perfectly resemble natural teeth. Quality Assurance: Verify the
safety and quality of the devices before they leave the laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/82 : MEDICAL ORTHOTIST & PROSTHETIST GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/952
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree in Medical Orthotics and
Prosthetics. Current valid registration with the HPCSA as independent
practitioner in Medical Orthotics and Prosthetics (2026). Valid driver’s licence
is an inherent requirement. Knowledge of relevant legislation such as National
Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Act and
related regulations and policies. Service delivery innovation, knowledge
management, problem-solving skills and analysis, good communication, client
orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Measure, manufacture, fit and service all MOP devices. Assist in supervision
and training of students. Assist in proper management of stores and inventory.
Conduct Multi-Disciplinary - and Outreach clinics to Primary Health Care (PHC)
facilities on monthly basis. Conducting ward rounds in various wards and fit
patients with needed devices. Administration relating
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
79
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/83 : CLINICAL CASE MANAGER REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/951 (X2 POSTS)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Piet Retief Hospital and Standerton Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in
terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in ICU / Critical Care Science will
be an added advantage. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
NB: Non-OSD posts. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem-solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Good knowledge of the
Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS), Knowledge of the Medical Schemes
Act 131 of 1998 i.e. the Chronic Disease List (CDL) and Diagnostic Treatment
Pairs (DTP) and the application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB)
legislation. Experience in ICD-10 Code assignment and the ability to link
patient diagnosis with procedure codes will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Identify and select externally funded patients for case management
intervention Perform Case Management functions, i.e. obtaining pre-
authorisation for emergency admissions, verify benefits with medical schemes
and send clinical updates and assist with the implementation of Case
Management policies, protocols and procedures. Daily ward rounds to identify
billable services done on RAF, M/A, SAPS, PCS, IOD, DOJ, H3. Liaise with the
various role players e.g. clinicians and medical scheme case managers to
monitor utilisation while in hospital. Monitor ICD-10 coding and other clinical
information to prevent rejections by funders. Assist in Revenue office with ICD-
10 coding accuracy before submitting a claim, provide most appropriate
procedure codes. Dissemination of information. Do clinical statistics monthly of
the cases managed, ICD10 codes used, medical schemes, authorisations
obtained, updates done and clinical rejections monitored.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/84 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/953
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years relevant experience or Diploma
/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human Resources Management / Development,
Public Management / Administration as recognized by SAQA plus three (3)
years relevant experience at Administrative Officer / Chief Administration Clerk
(Level 6/7). An experience in Human Resources Management / Development
will be an added advantage. Skills: Computer Skills particularly MS, Excel,
Outlook & Word, Good interpersonal, Good written and verbal communication,
Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational,
facilitation & presentation skills. Good interpersonal relations, Knowledge of
PERSAL, Public Service Act, PFMA, Skills Development Act, Employment
Equity Act and other relevant prescripts. Must be able to drive and travel to
meetings and workshops.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support for the Nelson Mandela – Fidel Castro
Collaboration Programme. Administer the contractual obligation of internal and
external bursary holders. Provide administrative support to ad hoc internal
programmes. Provide procurement support in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
80
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/85 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR-4): LEGISLATION AND
CONTRACT DRAFTING REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/954
SALARY : R403 929 - R461 838 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus LLB Degree with a minimum of five (5) years
post graduate legal experience in the capacity of an in-house legal advisor and
legislative drafting. Specialized knowledge of the legislation drafting process
and legislation administered by the Department, knowledge of government
procurement systems and South African Legal System, knowledge of the
Constitution of Republic of South Africa, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulation, PPPFA, PAJA, PAIA. Knowledge of the litigation
process and drafting / reviewing of contracts. Skills and competencies:
Interpersonal skills, strategic capability and leadership skills, Legal research
and drafting skills, problem solving and dispute resolution skills.
Communication skills (written and verbal), report writing skill, ability to work
under pressure, Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Draft and or amend legislation administered by the Department and pilot it
though legislature. Comment on draft legislation of other Departments on
behalf of the Department, Scrutinize legislation which requires amendment for
which the Department is affected. To render legal advice, guidance and
opinions to MEC, Top Management and Department at large in respect to
matters relating to legislation drafting and other legal matters. To provide legal
opinions in other matters pertaining to the Department. Handle litigations on
behalf of the Department. Draft, review contracts for the department. Drafting
of contract. Prepare monthly reports for and on behalf of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/86 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/955
SALARY : R338 208 – R397 668 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Degree in Social Work / Social Science.
Current registration with the South Africa Council for Social Service
Professions as a Social Worker (SACSSP) (2026). Knowledge and experience
in mediation. Knowledge in counselling clients. Court experience in rendering
expert evidence. Knowledge and application of family law, including mediation
in certain Divorce Matters Act, Children’s Act, Maintenance Act and domestic
violence Act (inclusive of Hague convention on international child abduction).
Skills and competences: Computer Literacy (MS word, Excel and power point).
Excellent communication (written and verbal). Skills: Mediation, interviewing
skills, Conflict resolution, evaluation and report writing skills. Diversity and
conflict management. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Conduct mediation and or inquires as part of a multi-disciplinary tam in care,
contact guardianship, relocation, child abduction and related family law
disputes. Evaluate information and compile forensic court reports and make
recommendations in the best interest of the child in family law disputes. Act as
expert witness for the family advocate in court. Assist beneficiaries in the
functions and role of the office of the advocate. Travel to conduct inquires and
interview parties and source references in the family law disputes. Case
management of matters allocated and achieve targets set. Counselling of
mental health care users. HIV positive patients. Tracing of family members of
the client and deceased client’s family counselling.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
81
POST 19/87 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/956
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) relevant experience or Diploma /
Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Journalism / Media Studies / Communication /
Public Relations. Experience in communication and media monitoring and
analysis, skills in communication and media data capturing will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of and experience in monitoring and evaluation will be
a recommendation. Good communication/liaison, planning and research skills.
Proficiency in using GCIS’ Government Communication Excellence Tool (G-
CET) and Media Monitoring and Analysis Tools. Strong knowledge and
understanding of government programmes and priorities. Knowledge of and a
strong interest in current affairs and the South African socio-political situation.
Understanding of the media landscape and environment. Tested knowledge of
monitoring and evaluation and media analysis methodologies. Willingness to
travel. Have a code 8 or 10 driver’s licence. Analytical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Well-developed interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Ability
to work independently, but also to coordinate work within a team environment.
Ability to work under pressure. Advanced computer skills. Intermediate to
advanced report writing and presentation skills. Proficiency in internet
searches. Use of databases and electronic dissemination of products. Planning
and organising.
DUTIES : Coordinate and implement public relations. Coordinate and maintain marketing
strategies and promote the image of the department. Coordinate and facilitate
the dissemination of information on health products and services to the public.
Coordinate, promote events and campaigns. Provide support to community
and outreach programmes. Provide photography and branding. Write articles
for departmental newsletters and other publications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/88 : DENTAL LABORATORY TECHNICIAN ASSISTANT GRADE 1: DENTISTRY
REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/979 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R225 777 – R258 156 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Higher Certificate in Dental Assistant
(typically a 1-year programme) or relevant Dental Laboratory Assistant
qualification from an accredited institution. A mandatory registration with
Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Dental Assistant.
(2026). Basic computer literacy. Ability to function independently as well as part
of a multidisciplinary team. Good organizational skill and ability to function
under pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public
holidays.
DUTIES : Support dentists and dental technologists by managing clinical environments,
sterilising instruments, and providing chair-side assistance during procedures.
Chair-side Assistance: Passing instruments, operating suction devices, and
keeping patients comfortable while the dentist works. Infection Control:
Sterilising surgical instruments, disinfecting work surfaces, and managing
hazardous waste. Material Preparation: Mixing impression materials, dental
cements, and preparing trays for procedures. Laboratory & Administrative
Support: Assisting dental technicians with pouring models, managing supply
inventory, booking appointments, and handling patient records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
82
POST 19/89 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
ANAESTHESIOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/958 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/90 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: PLASTIC
SURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/959
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
83
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/91 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
DERMATOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/960
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Dermatology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/92 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PULMONOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/961
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
84
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Pulmonology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/93 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
CARDIOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/962
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Cardiology (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: Less
than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but less than 10
years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant experience.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
85
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/94 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PAEDIATRIC CARDIOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/963
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Cardiology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At
least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years
and more relevant experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/95 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PAEDIATRIC NEUROLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/964
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Neurology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At
least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years
86
and more relevant experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/96 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
INFECTIOUS DISEASES (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/965
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Infectious Diseases
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
87
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/97 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/966
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Cardiothoracic
Surgery (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At
least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years
and more relevant experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/98 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PAEDIATRIC PULMONOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO:
MPDOH/JUN/26/967
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Pulmonology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At
least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years
and more relevant experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
88
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/99 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PAEDIATRIC SURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/968
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
89
POST 19/100 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
OPHTHALMOLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/970 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/101 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
NEUROSURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/971
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurosurgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
90
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/102 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: GENERAL
SURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/973 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/103 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
NEUROLOGY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/974
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
91
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurology (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: Less
than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but less than 10
years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant experience.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/104 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: VASCULAR
SURGERY (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/975
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Vascular Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
92
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/105 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
ORTHODONTIC (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/976
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthodontic (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: Less
than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but less than 10
years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant experience.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics./ Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/106 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3:
PROSTHODONTIC (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/977
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Prosthodontic
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
93
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 19/107 : CONTRACT SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: INTERNAL
MEDICINE (20 SESSIONS) REF NO: MPDOH/JUN/26/978
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 per hour
Grade 2: R766.00 per hour
Grade 3: R887.00 per hour
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: Less than 5 years relevant experience. Grade 2: At least 5 years, but
less than 10 years, relevant experience. Grade 3: 10 years and more relevant
experience. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
94
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT-related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
95
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 22 June 2026, 17:00 PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post: Medical Officer: Grade 1
To 3 (2 Year Contract), Centre: Mowbray Maternity Hospital, advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy 18 dated 29 May 2026, With Reference number:
18/234: Kindly note that the post has been cancelled.
POST 18/278: Medical Officer Grade 1 to 3 (20 Sessions) (Contract Until 31
July 2029) (X2 Posts) Centre: Wesfleur Hospital. Kindly note that the post title
has been amended as follows: Medical Officer: Grade 1 TO 3 (20 Sessions)
(Contract Until 31 July 2029) (X1 Post)
OTHER POSTS
POST 19/108 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 479 723 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver's license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Capacity to function within
senior clinical management & executive management teams. Capacity to
internalize and implement shared organizational values & commitments.
Strong leadership skills, strategy, quality management, problem solving,
decision-making, operational and contingency planning, flow management,
lean operations methodologies, general management, organisational,
interpersonal, negotiation, facilitation, presentation and public speaking skills.
Competency in management and leadership. Competency in project
management, public sector financial management, including budgeting,
expenditure control, revenue generation, procurement management, asset and
risk management. Competency in public sector human resource management
and development, including appropriate staffing levels, skills mix, skills
development, discipline and employee relations. Competency in information
usage/management to support decision-making, including managing
appropriate indicators, target setting, and monitoring and evaluation.
Knowledge and skills in dealing with relevant medicolegal matters.
Competence to acquire new skills as required. Embodying the values of the
Department of Health and Wellness.
DUTIES : Management of relevant general specialist and highly specialised clinical
services. Effective and efficient financial management of relevant general
specialist and highly specialised clinical services. Ensuring quality patient-
centred service delivery via leadership of relevant clinical FBUs (Functional
Business Units). Effective and efficient human resource management within
relevant general specialist and highly specialised clinical services. Clinical and
special/transversal portfolios and projects, as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Moodley Tel No: (021) 938-5883
96
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 19/109 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (MEDICAL GENETICS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Diploma in Paediatrics (or equivalent). Completed formal
training in genomics, evidenced by relevant courses or postgraduate
certification. Computer literacy. Ability to work well within a diverse group
including clinicians, counsellors and scientists. Commitment to learning all
aspects of medical genetics, experience, and interest in teaching medical
genetics. Commitment to relevant research. Ability to communicate with
patients and families. An interest in and commitment to counselling. Experience
in a relevant clinical, scientific or counselling field.
DUTIES : The clinical service includes patient management (medical care and genetic
counselling) for genetic and congenital disorders, and liaison with the genetics
laboratories. Clinical management of patients and families with or at risk of birth
defects and genetic disorders. Participation in teaching medical genetics at
different levels (undergraduates and other health care personnel). Participation
in outreach and support programmes as it relates to genetics services.
Competent quality of care including clinical administration and audit. Conduct
medical genetic research.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Moosa Tel No: (021) 938-9218 or email: shahidamoosa@sun.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. An exciting
opportunity exists for registrar training in the primary speciality of Medical
Genetics. This discipline applies clinical, genetic science, and genetic
counselling principles to the management and prevention of genetic disorders
and other birth defects. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4 years. It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to
another hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected
staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented. Registrars will
function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment as a Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be given to
existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their
existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Registrar will be on contract. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be
required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Specialist positions. The Department of Health is
guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are
encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated.
Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the
Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line
with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register
as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University according to the yearbook and
guidelines. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 19/110 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3: (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY) (ACUTE
SPINAL CORD INJURY UNIT)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
97
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Participate in the after-hours call system. Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical competency in autonomically,
cardiovascular, respiratory unstable patients. Peri-operative patient
optimization and care. Ability to work in a high-volume, resource restricted,
emotionally challenging environment with resilience to cope with care
withdrawal when futile, and communication with families around these difficult
issues Computer literacy and interest in data collection for service
improvement. Clinical experience in peri-operative and acute patient care.
Experience in intensive care including cardiovascular, ventilatory support and
quadra/paraplegia care.
DUTIES : Participation in undergraduate teaching and allied science training.
Supervision and training of interns. Clinical service provision in the ASCI unit.
Interacting with referrals from within and outside GSH.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M van der Berg Tel No: (021) 404 5108
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV, Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of
its training platform. Accordingly, all Medical Officers appointments may be
called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro
West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial
Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital,
Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
POST 19/111 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ANAESTHESIOLOGY)
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
98
requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after-hours call cover. Each Registrar
will be appointed in a specific training hospital but will be required to work
across the distributed training platform. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Diploma in Anaesthesia [DA(SA)] successfully completed. Effective leadership
& interpersonal skills. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since
obtaining the degree of MBChB. Knowledge and practical skills. Appropriate
Anaesthesiology experience.
DUTIES : Provision of safe medical care to patients in the operating theatres and
Intensive Care Units at Tygerberg Hospital and associated training hospitals.
Provide clinical support to other medical and surgical disciplines at Tygerberg
Hospital and associated training hospitals. Perform onsite after-hours duties as
per call roster. Supervise and support medical interns and medical officers
providing medical care on the service platform. Attend teaching program
activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the registrar training program.
Assist with the training of interns, medical students, nursing staff and
paramedics. Learn critical skills required of an Anaesthesiology specialist.
Involvement in research/audits relating to Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Pain and
Peri-operative Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Chetty Tel No: (021) 938-9226
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. "Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 19/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Extensive experience in Human Resource
Management and Facility Management and Support Services in a Hospital
setting. Extensive supervisory and management. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate and proven managerial experience in a Health Care environment,
showing strong leadership, strategic and operational skills. Ability to lead,
innovate and drive Human Resource and Facility Management initiatives.
Excellent knowledge and experience in the implementation of Human
Resource Management policies, procedures and practices pertaining to
Human Resources, Human Resource Development and Labour Relations.
99
Proven capability and experience in managing all aspects of Technical and
Support Services within a Hospital Facilities Management environment.
Excellent communication (written, verbal) and conflict management skills.
Proficient computer literacy (Microsoft Office package). Proven computer
literacy with proficiency in MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint with the ability to
understand and analyse statistical and financial information.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient management of all aspects of Human Resources
Management, including Labour Relations and Human Resource Development.
Strategic, operational and financial Management of all Support Services
including: waste management, linen, transport, porters, telecommunications,
residence, food services and contracted services. Strategic management of
technical services including workshop and occupational health and safety.
Provide strategic management and leadership, as member of George Regional
Hospital senior management team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Kau Tel No: (044) 802-4533 or email: Tshepo.Kau@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and competency test.
POST 19/113 : REGISTERED COUNCILLOR GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 per annum
Grade 2: R844 128 per annum
Grade 3: R953 094 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health professions Council of South Africa as a Registered
Counsellor. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Registered Councillor. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the health Professions council of South Africa as a Registered
councillor. Grade 2: A minimum of 8 years appropriate experience as a
councillor after registration with Health Professional Council (HPCSA). Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years appropriate experience as a councillor after
registration with Health Professionals council as a Registered Councillor.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel in the sub-district/ district to consult clients, attend and
conduct meetings and training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and/or experience in counselling, psychometric assessments and
identification of mental health challenges. Ability to think strategically and
analytically, as well as the ability to interpret and implement policies and
guidelines. Work within your professional scope of practice and know when to
refer for more specialized mental health interventions. Knowledge and
experience in providing mentoring and supervision of other lay health workers.
Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Knowledge and
application of regulations, policies and procedures relevant to health programs.
Able to work independently and in a team. Good presentation skills and the
ability to conduct meetings and training. Good intra- and interpersonal skills
aimed at professional relational development, maintenance of good
professional relations and effective conflict resolution. Adaptable and
innovative in a high-pressured environment. Conceptualization skills as
appropriate for individual and group evidence-based intervention identification
and application. Ability to work in a diverse, multi-cultural and inclusive
environment.
DUTIES : Providing preventative and developmental counselling services and
interventions at our district hospitals as well as their catchment areas.
Performing supportive psychological interventions to enhance mental well-
being on an individual basis, group basis or at community level. Performing
basic psychological screening aimed at overall generalized functioning
enhancement. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary/multi-
sectoral support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to
clients/supervisor(s) on interventions. Provide supervision, mentoring and
support to lay health workers, as part the sub district and district mental health
teams.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B van der Schyff Tel No: (021) 021 799-1103
100
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical/written and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job application / on
appointment. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”
POST 19/114 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Gugulethu Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care,
accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-
year post basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing
and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource and Financial
policies. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Manage, control and act in facets of health, support, security, cleaning,
infection control and ground services. Personnel matters including supervision
and Performance Management, Finances and Procurement, as well as
implementing policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the mentioned
facets. Manage planning to practice a holistic Health Service on a short-
/medium-/long-term basis. Render Clinical services and organise a cost-
effective service on a daily basis. Ensure that all personnel undergo training
according to their Individual Development and Performance Plan. Participate
in community involvement. Collect and verify submission of accurate statistics
timeously and give continuous positive support to the Facility Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Menziwa Tel No: (021) 819-9079
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 19/115 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CLINICAL TECHNOLOGY
SALARY : R664 410 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as Clinical
Technologist (Critical Care). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Clinical
Technologist: Critical Care (Independent Practice). Experience: A minimum of
3 years appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist: Critical Care (Independent Practice). Inherent requirements of
the job: After-hours service is compulsory. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Candidate must be competent in all critical
care and theatre with relevant management experience. Candidate must have
good knowledge about how other sections of clinical technology operates as
an assistant director Clinical Technologist management skill is required.
Knowledge and experience of supply chain processes, finance management
and human resource operational systems. Good interpersonal skills, strategic
101
planning and has leadership skills. Must demonstrate honesty, integrity, ability
to work independently to achieve goals of the institution. Candidate must have
good computer skills, time management skills, excellent report / motivation
writing skills and has a good understanding and use of conflict resolution
strategy. Good computer skills relevant to the post.
DUTIES : Provision of Clinical service in compliance with policies, procedures and
standard as set out by the institution, provincial and national authorities.
Coordinate all operational activities and programs of Clinical technologists
across spatiality barriers and provide management duties to critical care and
theatre supervisor. Departmental staff administration and management duty.
Coordinate training of Clinical Technology students where relevant.
Maintenance and procurement of departmental equipment. Coordination of
staff training in various aspects of critical care and theatre. Check equipment
regularly to comply with safety requirements. Promote and ensure staff
punctuality, attendance and accountability in the unit. To participate and
supervise clinical research projects of Clinical Technologist students and
departmental research projects. Monitor compliance among staff in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Cele Tel No: (021) 938-5752/ Prof S Chetty Tel No: (021) 938-9226
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/116 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL: ARV/HIV)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse. Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse or General Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to work after
hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good management, supervisory and
decision-making skills. Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies,
relevant to current nursing practice within the Public Service. Experience in
working in an ARV/HIV setting. Disciplinary and conflict management skills,
computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Supervise the unit and ensure proper utilization of physical, human and
financial resource in accordance with legislation and policies. Provide
management support, guidance, and direction to personnel under her/his
supervision towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives. Maintain
constructive working relationships with multi-disciplinary teamwork and other
relevant stakeholders. Participate in health promotion initiatives, HAST audits
and contribute to their evaluation and improvement plans. Effective operational
management at clinic level. Professional development, i.e. assessing, in
service training needs, planning implementation of training programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Levy Tel No: (021) 815-8583
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/117 : RADIOGRAPHER (ULTRASOUND): GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R510 906 per annum
Grade 2: R598 260 per annum
Grade 3: R703 785 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Radiographer
in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in
Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
102
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum
of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of
21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Comprehensive sonography education and extensive
hands-on experience, demonstrating a strong commitment to professional
growth and lifelong learning through advanced education, research, and staff
training. A thorough understanding of human anatomy and physiology is
required, along with knowledge of disease pathologies as they relate to
sonographic findings. A commitment to ethical practice, maintaining patient
confidentiality, a professional demeanor, and the capacity to manage stressful
situations calmly are essential. Strong abilities to interact effectively with both
patients and medical staff, clearly explaining technical information and
collaborating on patient care. Understanding of basic computer programs and
the use of reporting systems. Appropriate experience in vascular ultrasound.
DUTIES : Perform procedures in vascular ultrasonography. Ensure quality image
analysis to accurately contribute to diagnosis of abnormalities. Provide quality
patient-centered care to all patients. Actively participate as a member of the
health service institution. Perform clinical audits in the department. Attend
departmental meetings and participate in presentations. Perform other
appropriate duties as allocated by the Head of Department. Maintain clinical,
professional, and ethical standards. Operate imaging equipment and review
images to ensure they are of good quality. Provide training and support as
appropriate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Behardien-Peters Tel No: (021) 404 4187
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 19/118 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited Midwifery. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willing to work shifts, day- night duty and public holidays
103
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning and
organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Render an effective and comprehensive nursing treatment and care to patients.
Provide continuous holistic and comprehensive nursing care. Work as part of
the multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Perform clinical nursing practice and promote quality
nursing care in accordance with scope of practice and nursing standards as
determined by the relevant health facility/ Adheres to policy and procedures as
laid down by professional governing body. Assist with management of human
resources and finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Samuels Tel No: (021) 684-1400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Sciences.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 19/119 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EPIDEMIOLOGY & DISEASE SURVEILLANCE
Directorate: Health Intelligence
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, 4 Dorp Street, 18th Floor
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in health sciences, social sciences, public health or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience analysing and reporting on large routine
health services datasets. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver's licence.
Ability to travel to the districts and nationally if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Leadership, managerial, organisational, strategic,
operational and contingency planning skills. Decision-making and problem-
solving skills. Knowledge of health services for HIV, TB, NCDs, maternal and
child health conditions and related diseases. Ability to design and conduct
epidemiologic and surveillance analyses using routine data. Excellent
computer literacy skills, including high level skills in MS Excel and a statistical
package such as Stata or R and ability to understand SQL code. Ability to work
overtime / irregular hours.
DUTIES : Conduct population health surveillance analyses that supports the strategic
priorities of the Western Cape Department of Health. Report on Public Health
Surveillance. Strengthen surveillance and epidemiological investigations.
Support and evaluate public health interventions that could contribute to a
reduction in the burden of disease. Capacity Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Morden, email: Erna.Morden@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/120 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in Case Management/Medical Aid Environment.
Appropriate experience in ICD 10 codes assigned. Appropriate experience in
liaison with medical aid (funders) and managed care organisations with regards
to MHC policies, protocols, optimal fund utilisation and updated clinical
information. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Uniform
Patient Fees Schedule, Hospital Information Systems and EDI (Electronic Data
Interchange). Knowledge of Medical Aid Act 131 of 1998 and the application of
Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) legislation i.e. the Chronic Disease List
(CDL) and the Diagnostic Treatment Pairs (DTP). Ability to work with MS Excel
and Web-based Programmes (medical aids). Ability to link patient diagnosis
with procedure codes. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
104
DUTIES : Conduct clinical audits of Medical Aids and State Department, eg. RAF and
COIDA to ensure accuracy of invoices. Co-ordinate the workflow process
between clinical and admin personnel supporting various role players within
the hospital wrt ICD-10 codes, prescribed minimum benefits and account
queries. Implement Case Management policies, protocols and procedures
within the hospital. Perform hospital Case Management functions wrt
authorisation, benefit management, and review of clinical information for
externally funded clients. Provide quotations to privately funded and foreign
patients and compile statistical reports. Relief colleagues. Relief colleagues.
Supervision of staff and liaison with relevant role players in matters relating to
Case Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Langenhoven Tel No: (021) 404-2358
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/121 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(DEMAND MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Degree/Diploma in Public Management, Finance or Supply Chain
Management. Experience: Appropriate experience in procurement processes
and systems. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of computerized Procurement
Management Systems (Syspro). Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Excellent managerial. leadership and organizational skills.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National, and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, and the Accounting Officer's System of the
Department of Health, including delegations.
DUTIES : Conclude a procurement plan in line with the budget and strategic objective of
the institution. Market and product research. Identify high-usage items for the
conclusion of mini-contracts and high-value contracts to minimize buyouts.
Coordinate the process of transversal contracts for the 3 central hospitals.
Conclude the drafting of specifications, SOP, MOU and give input into the
procurement process. Report on all Demand Management activities to the
relevant structures internally and externally. Management of human resources.
Responsible for maintaining a positive culture within the SCM section which
includes change management initiatives, innovation, conflict resolution and
mitigating risks that could negatively affect the organisational culture.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Dhayalan-Nair Tel No: (021) 404-3220
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/122 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (ADMINISTRATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-Year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Financial Management and
Financial Accounting. Appropriate experience in Expenditure control and
completion of BMIs. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Organizational, managerial, leadership skills
and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Appropriate knowledge
relevant to supply chain management prescripts, departmental policies,
delegations and procedures. Strong people management and supervisory
skills, ability to work in a team context and motivate team members. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Office. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions,
Provincial and National Treasury regulations, as well as Accounting Officer
System. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient support to the ASD to manage the Budgetary Function
within the Substructure. Effective and efficient support to the ASD to manage
budget, revenue & expenditure monitoring and control within the Chief
Directorate: KESS Sector. Effective and efficient support to the ASD in
Financial accounting, including compliance and risk management within the
Chief Directorate: KESS Sector. Effective support to the ASD in the
management of Human Resources in the component. Monthly processing of
105
transfer payments. Monthly financial reporting and reconciliation. Administer
interdepartmental claims.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Dzanibe Tel No: (021) 360-4200 / malusi.dzanibe@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/123 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management to
provide quality administrative and support services to the Hospital and Staff
with regard to the HRM functions. Appropriate experience with regard to Salary
Systems (PERSAL) and Personnel Administration in the Public Service.
Appropriate experience in the administration of Staff Performance
Management System (SPMS), PERMIS, Pay Progression, Grade Progression
(OSD And Non-OSD) and commuted overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Analytical thinking. Computer literacy (MS Office: Ms Word,
Ms Excel and Power Point). Ability with working with figures. Extensive
PERSAL knowledge. Extensive knowledge of appointments, allowances and
deductions. The ability to function independently as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Problem-
solving Skills.
DUTIES : Manage Administrative Clerks in the Personnel section to ensure effective
functioning of the Personnel Administration Section. Management of all
personnel matters pertaining to salary administration including appointments,
service terminations and general service conditions, audit of leave and
personnel files, debt management, pension administration and commuted
overtime and the approval of PERSAL transactions. Manage the Staff
Performance Management (SPMS) process for Sub-ordinates. Assist staff,
supervisor, management and members of the public with regard to Human
Resources and Personnel Matters. HR Audit compliance. Conducting
administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Engelbrecht Tel No: (021) 938-4690
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 19/124 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(GOVERNANCE -TRANSPORT)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Accounting or Mathematics as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience that focuses on the Key Performance Area (KPA’S)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
practices and systems with specific knowledge and exposure to the Transport
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy particularly in Word and
Excel. High level of excellence in accurate data capturing and recording.
Excellent human relations abilities and telephone skills.
DUTIES : Ensure official appointment of Transport representatives. Maintain an updated
vehicle asset register for Head Office Fleet. Analyse the utilisation of Head
Office’s Fleet. Arrange Inspections of Head office GG vehicles and
administrative processes. Complete Head Office vehicle condition
assessments. Investigate and follow up on misuse cases reported by GMT.
Proper administration of fleet in relation to vehicle licencing, vehicle servicing,
traffic violations, misuse, accidents, damages, invoicing, and payments.
Ensure monthly capturing of all Head Office’s vehicle odometer readings.
Monthly reconciliation of Head Office invoices and ODOS captured. Effective
Head office Transport reporting. Keep record of the need analysis on a regular
basis to assist with the procuring and replacing of government vehicles. Keep
up to date with replacement of vehicles. Assistance and support to Head Office
Fleet users. Ensure complete and accurate registering of driver details on the
106
Fleetman system. Supervision of Staff. Assist the Assistant Director and Senior
admin Officer with tasks assigned. Handling of ad hoc tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Adonis Tel No: (021) 834-9033
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation for
verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews on
a date and time as determined by the department and may also be required to
undergo competency assessments.
POST 19/125 : AUDIOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R258 201 per annum
Grade 2: R301 563 per annum
Grade 3: R353 013 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/ Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
either an Audiologist or a Speech therapist and Audiologist. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist
or Speech therapist and Audiologist in respect of RSA qualified employee. 1-
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist
or Speech therapist and Audiologist in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech therapist and Audiologist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech therapist and
Audiologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Audiologist or Speech therapist and Audiologist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech therapist and Audiologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel within the Khayelitsha/
Eastern Sub-Structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Relevant skills in
assessing, developing and implementing Audiology intervention. Sound
knowledge of relevant national, provincial legislation. Health Care 2030. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate, manage and develop audiology services for a designated area.
Clinical Management of patients referred to audiology services at the PHC
facilities. Effective and efficient management of physical resources. People
management (Rehab Care Workers, students, volunteers). Participate in and
contribute to education and training activities. Liaise and collaborate with
stakeholders. Screen, assess and intervene as required and is relevant &
appropriate. Link to appropriate levels of care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Bedford-Titus Tel No: (021) 360 4622
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
POST 19/126 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (COMMUNICATIONS/ PUBLIC
RELATIONS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in communications, public relations, or
107
media environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to assist the
Communications Officer after hours (including weekends and public holidays).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literate (Microsoft Excel,
PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams, Word, and Outlook). Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Analytical thinking and problem-solving skills. Ability to
execute duties accurately and thoroughly and meet strict deadlines. Must be
able to cope with a heavy workload and handle stressful situations.
DUTIES : Assist with sourcing of stories for internal newsletter/ magazine. Assist with
telephonic and written communication with internal stakeholders. Assist with
drafting notices, memos and internal communication materials. Assist with the
coordination of meetings, events and awareness campaigns. Assisting with the
liaising and correspondence with external stakeholders, including NGO’s,
churches, schools and other community stakeholders. Support the department
with social media updates, distribution of communication material and public
engagement activities when required. Public Relations and Communications
Support and other Ad hoc duties. General Administrative Duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LC Pienaar Tel No: (021) 938-5454
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 19/127 : SECRETARY
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent)/Grade 12
plus computing and Computer Applications. Experience: Appropriate
administrative and secretarial experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work after hours, if required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (both verbal and
written). Good telephone etiquette and interpersonal skills to deal with the
public and staff members, and the ability to work independently. Ability to
handle information in a confidential manner and a professional attitude.
Computer literacy and typing skills (MS Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and
E-mail).
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and administrative support services to the Manager.
Screen, direct, and manage telephonic, written, and email communication
appropriately. Receive visitors, plan and coordinate events, and fulfil a public
relations and hospitality role for the sub-district management team. Provide
clerical and administrative functions to the Hospital Facility Board. Studies the
relevant Public Service and Departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents, and ensures that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ED Titus Tel No: (023) 316- 9600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 19/128 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INPATIENTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital, Swellendam Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Staff Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours,
night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic
Computer skills in MS Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing
legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health and Wellness,
Western Cape.
108
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Vermeulen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 19/129 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Current registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade
1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with SANC as a Nurse Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts,
weekends, and public holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication, planning and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work in the multidisciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP’s, policies, and guidelines.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Meyile Tel No: (023) 348 -1311
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).”
POST 19/130 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 GENERAL (X4 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital (X3 Posts)
Otto Du Plessis Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty, assist in
other wards as needed and weekend cover for nursing. Competencies
109
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of multi-disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal
relationships. Basic Computer skills in MS Word and Outlook. Knowledge of
relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health
and Wellness, Western cape.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development. Assist with effective record-keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Vermeulen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 19/131 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a large-scale food service unit which
includes the operating of large-scale kitchen equipment as well as the
preparation of meals in a health environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime, shifts (weekends and public holidays). Ability to
do physical tasks and operate heavy-duty kitchen and cleaning equipment.
Ability to work long hours on your feet for a period up to 12 hours.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written and
verbal). The ability to prepare meals according to standardised recipes, as well
as safety and correctly handle industrial equipment. Appropriate knowledge of
the food service hygiene and safety principles.
DUTIES : Prepare all tasks emanating from the pre-preparation and production of all full
and therapeutic diets. Perform all tasks emanating from the dishing, distribution
and serving food to patients at various wards. Clean and maintain all areas,
utensils and equipment in the food service unit. Maintain safety and hygiene
standards. Assist with the receipt, storage and issuing of food provisions and
other products. Prepare milk feeds according to prescribed standardised
recipes and the standard operation plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Smith Tel No: (044) 203-7272/57
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to do a practical test.
POST 19/132 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT
Overberg District
SALARY : R144 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic Numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in linen in a Hospital/Clinic environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to do manual Labour (heavy linen
bags) and assist in other departments when required. Able to handle heavily
soiled linen containing human excretions and blood. Physically fit and able to
lift heavy items. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proper working knowledge
of all laundry/linen policies, protocols, procedures and good work ethics. Good
interpersonal, organising, and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
inventory/stock control. Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Washing, drying, folding, and ironing. Load and unload trucks, washing
machines and tumble dryers. Assist with Monitor quality of work. Empty soiled
laundry bags for sorting and counting, sealing and stacking of clean linen bags
for dispatching.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T De Wet Tel No: (028) 312-1166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
110